1 On the day Moses finished erecting the Dwelling, he anointed and consecrated it and all its furniture, as well as the altar and all its equipment. When he had anointed and consecrated it all,
2 the leaders of Israel made an offering; they were the heads of their families, the tribal leaders who had presided over the census.
3 They brought their offering before Yahweh: six covered wagons and twelve oxen, one wagon for every two leaders and one ox each. They brought them in front of the Dwelling.
4 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said,
5 'Accept these from them, and let them be set apart for the service of the Tent of Meeting. You will give them to the Levites, to each as his duties require.'
6 Moses took the wagons and oxen, and gave them to the Levites.
7 To the Gershonites he gave two wagons and four oxen for the duties they had to perform.
8 To the Merarites he gave four wagons and eight oxen for the duties they had to perform under the direction of Ithamar, son of Aaron the priest.
9 But to the Kohathites he gave none at all, because the sacred charge entrusted to them had to be carried on their shoulders.
10 The leaders then made an offering for the dedication of the altar, on the day it was anointed. They brought their offering before the altar,
11 and Yahweh said to Moses, 'Each day one of the leaders must bring his offering for the dedication of the altar.'
12 On the first day an offering was brought by Nahshon son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah.
13 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
14 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
15 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
16 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
17 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Nahshon son of Amminadab.
18 On the second day an offering was brought by Nethanel son of Zuar, leader of Issachar.
19 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
20 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
21 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
22 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
23 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Nethanel son of Zuar.
24 On the third day an offering was brought by Eliab son of Helon, leader of the Zebulunites.
25 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
26 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
27 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
28 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
29 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Eliab son of Helon.
30 On the fourth day an offering was brought by Elizur son of Shedeur, leader of the Reubenites.
31 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
32 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
33 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
34 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
35 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Elizur son of Shedeur.
36 On the fifth day an offering was brought by Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai, leader of the Simeonites.
37 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
38 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
39 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
40 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
41 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai.
42 On the sixth day an offering was brought by Eliasaph son of Reuel, leader of the Gadites.
43 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
44 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
45 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
46 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
47 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Eliasaph son of Reuel.
48 On the seventh day an offering was brought by Elishama son of Ammihud, leader of the Ephraimites.
49 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
50 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
51 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
52 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
53 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Elishama son of Ammihud.
54 On the eighth day an offering was brought by Gamaliel son of Pedahzur, leader of the Manassehites.
55 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
56 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
57 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
58 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
59 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Gamaliel son of Pedahzur.
60 On the ninth day an offering was brought by Abidan son of Gideoni, leader of the Benjaminites.
61 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
62 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
63 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
64 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
65 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Abidan son of Gideoni.
66 On the tenth day an offering was brought by Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai, leader of the Danites.
67 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
68 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
69 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
70 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
71 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai.
72 On the eleventh day an offering was brought by Pagiel son of Ochran, leader of the Asherites.
73 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
74 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
75 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
76 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
77 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Pagiel son of Ochran.
78 On the twelfth day an offering was brought by Ahira son of Enan, leader of the Naphtalites.
79 His offering consisted of: one silver bowl weighing a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver sprinkling bowl weighing seventy shekels (sanctuary shekels), both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering,
80 one golden bowl weighing ten shekels, full of incense,
81 one young bull, one ram and one male yearling lamb as a burnt offering,
82 one he-goat as a sacrifice for sin,
83 and two bulls, five rams, five he-goats and five male yearling lambs as a communion sacrifice. Such was the offering of Ahira son of Enan.
84 Such were the offerings made by the leaders of Israel for the dedication of the altar on the day it was anointed: twelve silver bowls, twelve silver sprinkling bowls, and twelve golden bowls.
85 Each silver bowl weighed a hundred and thirty shekels, and each sprinkling bowl seventy, the silver of these objects weighing in all two thousand four hundred sanctuary shekels.
86 The twelve golden bowls full of incense each weighed ten shekels (sanctuary shekels), the gold of these bowls weighing in all a hundred and twenty shekels.
87 The sum total of animals for the burnt offering: twelve bulls, twelve rams, twelve male yearling lambs, with their cereal offerings. For the sacrifice for sin, twelve he-goats.
88 The sum total of animals for the communion sacrifice: twenty-four bulls, sixty rams, sixty he-goats and sixty male yearling lambs. Such were the offerings for the dedication of the altar, after it had been anointed.
89 When Moses went into the Tent of Meeting to speak with him, he heard the voice speaking to him from above the mercy-seat on the ark of the Testimony, from between the two great winged creatures. He then spoke to him.
