1 Balaam then saw that it pleased Yahweh to bless Israel. He did not go as before to seek omens but turned towards the desert.
2 Raising his eyes Balaam saw Israel settled tribe by tribe; the spirit of God came on him
3 and he declaimed his poem, as follows: The prophecy of Balaam son of Beor, the prophecy of the man with far-seeing eyes,
4 the prophecy of one who hears the words of God. He sees what Shaddai makes him see, receives the divine answer, and his eyes are opened.
5 How fair your tents are, Jacob, how fair your dwellings, Israel,
6 like valleys that stretch afar, like gardens by the banks of a river, like aloes planted by Yahweh, like cedars beside the waters!
7 A hero arises from their stock, he reigns over countless peoples. His king is greater than Agag, and his kingship held in honour.
8 God has brought him out of Egypt, is like the wild ox's horns to him. He devours the corpses of his enemies, breaking their bones, piercing them with his arrows.
9 He has crouched, he has lain down, like a lion, like a lioness; who dare rouse him? Blessed be those who bless you, and accursed be those who curse you!
10 Balak flew into a rage with Balaam. He struck his hands together and said to Balaam, 'I brought you to curse my enemies, and you have insisted on blessing them three times over!
11 So now go home as fast as your legs can carry you. I promised to load you with honours. Yahweh himself has deprived you of them.'
12 Balaam retorted to Balak, 'Did I not tell the messengers you sent me,
13 "Even if Balak gave me his house full of gold and silver I could not go against Yahweh's order and do anything of my own accord, whether for good or ill; whatever Yahweh says is what I shall say"?
14 Now that I am going back to my own folk, let me warn you what this people will do to your people, in days to come.'
15 He then declaimed his poem, as follows: The prophecy of Balaam son of Beor, the prophecy of the man with far-seeing eyes,
16 the prophecy of one who hears the words of God, of one who knows the knowledge of the Most High. He sees what Shaddai makes him see, receives the divine answer, and his eyes are opened.
17 I see him -- but not in the present. I perceive him -- but not close at hand: a star is emerging from Jacob, a sceptre is rising from Israel, to strike the brow of Moab, the skulls of all the children of Seth.
18 Edom too will be a conquered land, Seir too will be a conquered land, when Israel exerts his strength,
19 when Jacob tramples on his enemies and destroys the last survivors of Ar.
20 Balaam then looked at Amalek and declaimed his poem, as follows: Amalek, the earliest of nations! But his posterity will perish forever.
21 He then looked at the Kenites and declaimed his poem, as follows: Your dwelling was firm, Kain, your nest perched high in the rock.
22 But the nest belongs to Beor; how long will you be Asshur's captive?
23 He then declaimed his poem, as follows: The Sea-people are gathering in the north,
24 the vessels from the coasts of Kittim. They will bear down on Asshur, bear down on Eber; he too will perish forever.
25 Balaam then got up, left and went home, and Balak too went his way.
