1 After this plague, Yahweh spoke to Moses and to the priest Eleazar son of Aaron and said:
2 'Take a census of the whole community of Israelites, by families: all those of twenty years and over, fit to bear arms in Israel.'
3 So Moses and the priest Eleazar took a census of them on the Plains of Moab, near the Jordan by Jericho. They counted
4 (as Yahweh had ordered Moses and the Israelites after leaving Egypt) men of twenty years and over:
5 Reuben, the first-born of Israel. The sons of Reuben: for Hanoch, the Hanochite clan; for Pallu, the Palluite clan;
6 for Hezron, the Hezronite clan; for Carmi, the Carmite clan.
7 These were the Reubenite clans. They numbered forty-three thousand seven hundred and thirty men.
8 The sons of Pallu: Eliab.
9 The sons of Eliab: Nemuel, Dathan and Abiram. These two, Dathan and Abiram, men of repute in the community, were the ones who revolted against Moses and Aaron; they belonged to Korah's group when it revolted against Yahweh.
10 The earth opened its mouth and swallowed them (with Korah when that group perished), when fire consumed the two hundred and fifty men. They were a sign.
11 Korah's sons, however, did not perish.
12 The sons of Simeon by clans: for Nemuel, the Nemuelite clan; for Jamin, the Jaminite clan; for Jachin, the Jachinite clan;
13 for Zerah, the Zerahite clan; for Shaul, the Shaulite clan.
14 These were the Simeonite clans. They numbered twenty-two thousand two hundred men.
15 The sons of Gad by clans: for Zephon, the Zephonite clan; for Haggi, the Haggite clan; for Shuni, the Shunite clan;
16 for Ozni, the Oznite clan; for Eri, the Erite clan;
17 for Arod, the Arodite clan; for Areli, the Arelite clan.
18 These were the clans of the sons of Gad. They numbered forty thousand five hundred men.
19 The sons of Judah: Er and Onan. Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
20 The other sons of Judah became clans: for Shelah, the Shelahite clan; for Perez, the Perezzite clan; for Zerah, the Zerahite clan.
21 The sons of Perez were: for Hezron, the Hezronite clan; for Hamul, the Hamulite clan.
22 These were the clans of Judah. They numbered seventy-six thousand five hundred men.
23 The sons of Issachar by clans: for Tola, the Tolaite clan; for Puvah, the Puvahite clan;
24 for Jashub, the Jashubite clan; for Shimron, the Shimronite clan.
25 These were the clans of Issachar. They numbered sixty-four thousand three hundred men.
26 The sons of Zebulun by clans: for Sered, the Seredite clan; for Elon, the Elonite clan; for Jahleel, the Jahleelite clan.
27 These were the clans of Zebulun. They numbered sixty thousand five hundred men.
28 The sons of Joseph by clans: Manasseh and Ephraim.
29 The sons of Manasseh: for Machir, the Machirite clan; Machir fathered Gilead: for Gilead, the Gileadite clan.
30 These were the sons of Gilead: for Iezer, the Iezerite clan; for Helek, the Helekite clan;
31 Asriel, the Asrielite clan; Shechem, the Shechemite clan;
32 Shemida, the Shemidaite clan; Hepher, the Hepherite clan.
33 Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons, only daughters; the names of Zelophehad's daughters were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah.
34 These were the clans of Manasseh. They numbered fifty-two thousand seven hundred men.
35 These were the sons of Ephraim by clans: for Shuthelah, the Shuthelahite clan; for Becher, the Becherite clan; for Tahan, the Tahanite clan.
36 These were the sons of Shuthelah: for Eran, the Eranite clan.
37 These were the clans of Ephraim. They numbered thirty-two thousand five hundred men. These were the sons of Joseph by clans.
38 The sons of Benjamin by clans: for Bela, the Belaite clan; for Ashbel, the Ashbelite clan; for Ahiram, the Ahiramite clan;
39 for Shephupham, the Shephuphamite clan; for Hupham, the Huphamite clan.
40 Bela's sons were Ard and Naaman; for Ard, the Ardite clan; for Naaman, the Naamanite clan.
41 These were the sons of Benjamin by clans. They numbered forty-five thousand six hundred men.
42 These were the sons of Dan by clans: for Shuham, the Shuhamite clan. These were the sons of Dan by clans.
43 All the Shuhamite clans numbered sixty-four thousand four hundred men.
44 The sons of Asher by clans: for Imnah, the Imnahite clan; for Ishvi, the Ishvihite clan; for Beriah, the Beriahite clan.
45 For the sons of Beriah: for Heber, the Heberite clan; for Malchiel, the Malchielite clan.
46 The daughter of Asher was called Serah.
47 These were the clans of Asher. They numbered fifty-three thousand four hundred men.
48 The sons of Naphtali by clans: for Jahzeel, the Jahzeelite clan; for Guni, the Gunite clan;
49 for Jezer, the Jezerite clan; for Shillem, the Shillemite clan.
50 These were the clans of Naphtali as divided into clans. The sons of Naphtali numbered forty-five thousand four hundred men.
51 Of the Israelites thus numbered, there were six hundred and one thousand seven hundred and thirty men.
52 Yahweh then spoke to Moses and said,
53 'The country must be shared out among these as a heritage, proportionately to the number of those inscribed.
54 To the large in number you will give a large area of land, to the small in number a small area; to each the heritage will be in proportion to the number registered.
55 The sharing out of the country must, however, be done by lot. Each will receive a heritage proportionate to the number of names in their patriarchal tribes;
56 the heritage of each tribe will be shared out by lot, depending on its larger or smaller numbers.'
57 These, by clans, are the Levites that were registered: for Gershon, the Gershonite clan; for Kohath, the Kohathite clan; for Merari, the Merarite clan.
58 These are the Levite clans: the Libnite clan, the Hebronite clan, the Mahlite clan, the Mushite clan, the Korahite clan. Kohath fathered Amram.
59 Amram's wife was called Jokebed daughter of Levi, born to him in Egypt. To Amram she bore Aaron, Moses and Miriam their sister.
60 Aaron fathered Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
61 Nadab and Abihu died when they brought unauthorised fire before Yahweh.
62 Altogether twenty-three thousand males of one month and over were registered. They were not registered with the Israelites, since they were given no heritage with the Israelites.
63 Such were the men registered by Moses and the priest Eleazar who took a census of the Israelites on the Plains of Moab near the Jordan by Jericho.
64 Not one of them was among those whom Moses and the priest Aaron had registered when they counted the Israelites in the desert of Sinai;
65 for Yahweh had told them that these were to die in the desert and that none of them would be left except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun.
