1 There then came forward the daughters of Zelophehad son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh; he belonged to the clans of Manasseh son of Joseph. His daughters' names were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah.
2 They appeared before Moses, the priest Eleazar, the leaders and the whole community, at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting, and said,
3 'Our father died in the desert. He was not a member of the party who banded together against Yahweh, Korah's party; it was for his own sin that he died without sons.
4 Why should our father's name be lost to his clan? Since he had no son, give us some property like our father's kinsmen.'
5 Moses took their case before Yahweh,
6 and Yahweh spoke to Moses and said,
7 'Zelophehad's daughters are right in what they say. You will indeed give them a property to be their heritage among their father's kinsmen; see that their father's heritage is passed on to them.
8 Then speak to the Israelites and say, "If a man dies without sons, his heritage will pass to his daughter.
9 If he has no daughter, the heritage will go to his brothers.
10 If he has no brothers, his heritage will go to his father's brothers.
11 If his father has no brothers, his heritage will go to the member of his clan who is most nearly related; it will become his property. This will be a legal rule for the Israelites, as Yahweh has ordered Moses." '
12 Yahweh said to Moses, 'Climb this mountain of the Abarim range, and look at the country which I have given to the Israelites.
13 After you have seen it, you will be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother was.
14 For you both rebelled in the desert of Zin when the community disputed with me and when I ordered you to assert my holiness before their eyes by means of the water.' (These were the Waters of Meribah of Kadesh, in the desert of Zin.)
15 Moses then said to Yahweh,
16 'May it please Yahweh, God of the spirits that give life to all living creatures, to appoint a leader for this community,
17 to be at their head in all their undertakings, a man who will lead them out and bring them in, so that Yahweh's community will not be like sheep without a shepherd.'
18 Yahweh then said to Moses, 'Take Joshua son of Nun, a man in whom the spirit dwells, and lay your hand on him.
19 Bring him before the priest Eleazar and the whole community and give him your orders in their presence,
20 conferring some of your own authority on him, so that the whole community of Israelites will obey him.
21 He will present himself to the priest Eleazar who will consult Yahweh on his behalf by means of the rite of the urim; at his command, they will go out and, at his command, they will come in, he and all the Israelites with him, the whole community.'
22 Moses did as Yahweh had ordered. He took Joshua, brought him before the priest Eleazar and the whole community,
23 laid his hands on him and gave him his orders, as Yahweh had directed through Moses.
