1 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said,
2 'Give the Israelites this order: "Take care to bring me my offering, my sustenance in the form of food burnt as a smell pleasing to me, at the proper time."
3 'You will then say to them: "This is the food which you will burn in offering to Yahweh: "Every day, two unblemished yearling lambs as a perpetual burnt offering.
4 You will offer the first lamb in the morning and the second lamb at twilight,
5 with a cereal offering of one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with one-quarter of a hin of crushed-olive oil.
6 Such was the perpetual burnt offering made on Mount Sinai as a pleasing smell, as food burnt for Yahweh.
7 The accompanying libation will be of one-quarter of a hin for each lamb; the libation of fermented liquor for Yahweh will be poured inside the sanctuary.
8 The second lamb you will offer at twilight, offering it with the same cereal offering and the same libation as in the morning, as food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh.
9 "On the Sabbath day, you will offer two unblemished yearling lambs and two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour as a cereal offering, mixed with oil, as well as the accompanying libation.
10 The Sabbath burnt offering will be offered every Sabbath in addition to the perpetual burnt offering, and the accompanying libation similarly.
11 "At the beginning of each of your months you will offer a burnt offering to Yahweh: two young bulls, one ram and seven yearling lambs, without blemish;
12 for each bull a cereal offering of three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil; for each ram, a cereal offering of two-tenths of fine flour mixed with oil;
13 for each lamb, a cereal offering of one-tenth of fine flour mixed with oil: as a burnt offering, as a pleasing smell, as food burnt for Yahweh.
14 The accompanying libations will be of half a hin of wine for a bull, one-third of a hin for a ram and one-quarter of a hin for a lamb. This will be the monthly burnt offering, month after month, every month of the year.
15 In addition to the perpetual burnt offering, a goat will be offered to Yahweh, as a sacrifice for sin, with its accompanying libation.
16 "The fourteenth day of the first month is the Passover of Yahweh,
17 and the fifteenth day of this month is a feast day. For seven days unleavened bread will be eaten.
18 On the first day there will be a sacred assembly; you will do no heavy work.
19 As food burnt as a burnt offering you will offer Yahweh two young bulls, a ram and seven yearling lambs, without blemish.
20 The accompanying cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil will be three-tenths of an ephah for a bull, two-tenths for a ram,
21 and one-tenth for each of the seven lambs.
22 There will also be a goat as a sacrifice for sin, for performing the rite of expiation for you.
23 You will offer these in addition to the morning burnt offering, which is a perpetual burnt offering.
24 You will do this every day for seven days. It is sustenance, food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh, to be offered in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its accompanying libation.
25 On the seventh day you will hold a sacred assembly; you will do no heavy work.
26 "On the day of the first-fruits, when you make your offering of new fruits to Yahweh at your feast of Weeks, you will hold a sacred assembly; you will do no heavy work.
27 As a burnt offering as a smell pleasing to Yahweh, you will offer two young bulls, one ram and seven yearling lambs.
28 The accompanying cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil will be three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, two-tenths for the ram,
29 and one-tenth for each of the seven lambs.
30 There will also be a goat as a sacrifice for sin, for performing the rite of expiation for you.
31 You will offer these in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its accompanying cereal offering and libations." '
