1 ' "In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you will hold a sacred assembly; you will do no heavy work. For you this will be a day of Acclamations.
2 As a burnt offering, as a smell pleasing to Yahweh, you will offer one young bull, one ram and seven yearling lambs, without blemish.
3 The accompanying cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil will be three-tenths of an ephah for the bull, two-tenths for the ram,
4 and one-tenth for each of the seven lambs.
5 There will also be a goat as a sacrifice for sin, for performing the rite of expiation for you.
6 This is in addition to the monthly burnt offering and its cereal offering, the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering, and the accompanying libations enjoined by law, as a pleasing smell, as food burnt for Yahweh.
7 "On the tenth day of this seventh month, you will hold a sacred assembly; you will fast and do no work.
8 As a burnt offering for Yahweh, as a pleasing smell, you will offer one young bull, one ram and seven yearling lambs, which you will choose as being without blemish.
9 The accompanying cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil will be three-tenths of an ephah for the bull, two-tenths for the ram,
10 and one-tenth for each of the seven lambs.
11 And a goat will be offered as a sacrifice for sin. This is in addition to the victim for sin at the feast of Expiation, to the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering, and their accompanying libations.
12 "On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you will hold a sacred assembly; you will do no heavy work, and for seven days you will celebrate a feast for Yahweh.
13 As a burnt offering, as food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh, you will offer thirteen young bulls, two rams and fourteen yearling lambs, without blemish.
14 The accompanying cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil will be three-tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen bulls, two-tenths for each of the two rams,
15 and one-tenth for each of the fourteen lambs;
16 also one goat as a sacrifice for sin. This is in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering and libation.
17 "On the second day: twelve young bulls, two rams and fourteen yearling lambs, without blemish;
18 the accompanying cereal offering and libations, as prescribed, in proportion to the number of bulls, rams and lambs;
19 also one goat as a sacrifice for sin. This is in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering and libations.
20 "On the third day: eleven bulls, two rams and fourteen yearling lambs, without blemish;
21 the accompanying cereal offering and libations, as prescribed, in proportion to the number of bulls, rams and lambs;
22 also one goat as a sacrifice for sin. This is in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering and libations.
23 "On the fourth day: ten bulls, two rams and fourteen yearling lambs, without blemish;
24 the accompanying cereal offering and libations, as prescribed, in proportion to the number of bulls, rams and lambs;
25 also one goat as a sacrifice for sin. This is in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering and libation.
26 "On the fifth day: nine bulls, two rams and fourteen yearling lambs, without blemish;
27 the accompanying cereal offering and libations, as prescribed, in proportion to the number of bulls, rams and lambs;
28 also one goat as a sacrifice for sin. This is in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering and libation.
29 "On the sixth day: eight bulls, two rams and fourteen yearling lambs, without blemish;
30 the accompanying cereal offering and libations, as prescribed, in proportion to the number of bulls, rams and lambs;
31 also one goat as a sacrifice for sin. This is in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering and libations.
32 "On the seventh day: seven bulls, two rams and fourteen yearling lambs, without blemish;
33 the accompanying cereal offering and libations, as prescribed, in proportion to the number of bulls, rams and lambs;
34 also one goat as a sacrifice for sin. This is in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering and libation.
35 "On the eighth day you will hold an assembly; you will do no heavy work.
36 As a burnt offering, as food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh, you will offer one bull, one ram and seven yearling lambs, without blemish;
37 the accompanying cereal offering and libations, as prescribed, in proportion to the number of bulls, rams and lambs;
38 also one goat as a sacrifice for sin. This is in addition to the perpetual burnt offering and its cereal offering and libation.
39 "This is what you are to do for Yahweh at your solemn feasts, over and above your votive offerings and your voluntary offerings, your burnt offerings, cereal offerings and libations, and your peace offerings." '
