1 These were the stages of the journey made by the Israelites when they left Egypt in their companies under the leadership of Moses and Aaron.
2 Moses recorded their starting-points in writing whenever they moved on at Yahweh's order. The stages, from one starting-point to another, were as follows:
3 They left Rameses in the first month. It was the fifteenth day of the first month, the day following the Passover, when the Israelites confidently set out, under the eyes of all Egypt.
4 The Egyptians were burying those of their own people whom Yahweh had struck down, all the first-born; Yahweh had carried out his judgement on their gods.
5 The Israelites left Rameses and camped at Succoth.
6 Then they left Succoth and encamped at Etham which is on the edge of the desert.
7 They left Etham, turned back to Pi-Hahiroth, opposite Baal-Zephon, and encamped before Migdol.
8 They left Pi-Hahiroth, crossed the sea into the desert, and after marching for three days in the desert of Etham they encamped at Marah.
9 They left Marah and reached Elim. At Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees; they encamped there.
10 They left Elim and encamped by the Sea of Reeds.
11 They left the Sea of Reeds and encamped in the desert of Sin.
12 They left the desert of Sin and encamped at Dophkah.
13 They left Dophkah and encamped at Alush.
14 They left Alush and encamped at Rephidim; the people found no drinking water there.
15 They left Rephidim and encamped in the desert of Sinai.
16 They left the desert of Sinai and encamped at Kibroth-ha-Taavah.
17 They left Kibroth-ha-Taavah and encamped at Hazeroth.
18 They left Hazeroth and encamped at Rithmah.
19 They left Rithmah and encamped at Rimmon-Perez.
20 They left Rimmon-Perez and encamped at Libnah.
21 They left Libnah and encamped at Rissah.
22 They left Rissah and encamped at Kehelathah.
23 They left Kehelathah and encamped at Mount Shepher.
24 They left Mount Shepher and encamped at Haradah.
25 They left Haradah and encamped at Makheloth.
26 They left Makheloth and encamped at Tahath.
27 They left Tahath and encamped at Terah.
28 They left Terah and encamped at Mithkah.
29 They left Mithkah and encamped at Hashmonah.
30 They left Hashmonah and encamped at Moseroth.
31 They left Moseroth and encamped at Bene-Jaakan.
32 They left Bene-Jaakan and encamped at Hor-Gidgad.
33 They left Hor-Gidgad and encamped at Jotbathah.
34 They left Jotbathah and encamped at Abronah.
35 They left Abronah and encamped at Ezion-Geber.
36 They left Ezion-Geber and encamped in the desert of Zin, that is, at Kadesh.
37 They left Kadesh and encamped at Mount Hor, on the borders of the land of Edom.
38 The priest Aaron went up Mount Hor on Yahweh's orders and died there in the fortieth year of the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt, in the fifth month, on the first day of the month.
39 Aaron was a hundred and twenty-three years old when he died on Mount Hor.
40 The king of Arad, the Canaanite who lived in the Negeb of Canaan, heard of the Israelites' arrival.
41 They left Mount Hor and encamped at Zalmonah.
42 They left Zalmonah and encamped at Punon.
43 They left Punon and encamped at Oboth.
44 They left Oboth and encamped in Moabite territory at Iye-Abarim.
45 They left Iyim and encamped at Dibon-Gad.
46 They left Dibon-Gad and encamped at Almon-Diblathaim.
47 They left Almon-Diblathaim and encamped in the Abarim mountains facing Nebo.
48 They left the Abarim mountains and encamped on the Plains of Moab, near the Jordan opposite Jericho.
49 They encamped near the Jordan between Beth-ha-Jeshimoth and Abel-ha-Shittim, on the Plains of Moab.
50 Yahweh spoke to Moses on the Plains of Moab, near the Jordan by Jericho, and said:
51 'Speak to the Israelites and say: "When you have crossed the Jordan into Canaan,
52 you will drive out all the local inhabitants before you. You will destroy all their painted images, you will destroy all their metal statues and you will demolish all their high places.
53 You will take possession of the country and settle in it, for I have given you the country as your property.
54 You will share it out by lot among your clans. To a large clan you will give a larger heritage, and to a smaller clan you will give a smaller heritage. Where the lot falls for each, that will be his. Your heritage will depend on the size of your tribe.
55 If, however, you do not drive out the local inhabitants before you, the ones you allow to remain will be thorns in your eyes and thistles in your sides and will harass you in the country where you are living,
56 and I shall treat you as I intended to treat them." '
