1 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said,
2 'Give the Israelites this order. Say: "When you enter the country (Canaan), this will be the country which forms your heritage. This is Canaan as defined by its boundaries:
3 "The southern part of your country will start from the desert of Zin, on the borders of Edom. Your southern boundary will start on the east at the end of the Salt Sea.
4 It will then turn south towards the Ascent of the Scorpions and go by Zin to end in the south at Kadesh-Barnea. It will then run towards Hazar-Addar and pass through Azmon.
5 From Azmon the boundary will turn towards the Torrent of Egypt and end at the Sea.
6 "Your seaboard will be on the Great Sea; this will be your western boundary.
7 "Your northern boundary will be as follows: you will draw a line from the Great Sea to Mount Hor,
8 then from Mount Hor you will draw a line to the Pass of Hamath, and the boundary will end at Zedad.
9 From there it will run on to Ziphron and end at Hazar-Enan. This will be your northern boundary.
10 "You will then draw your eastern boundary from Hazar-Enan to Shepham.
11 The boundary will run down from Shepham towards Riblah on the east side of Ain. Further down it will keep to the eastern shore of the Sea of Chinnereth.
12 The frontier will then follow the Jordan and end at the Salt Sea. "Such will be your country with the boundaries surrounding it." '
13 Moses then gave the Israelites this order: 'This is the country, where your heritages will be assigned by lot, and which Yahweh has ordered to be given to the nine tribes and the half-tribe,
14 for the tribe of the Reubenites with their families and the tribe of the Gadites with their families have already received their heritage; the half-tribe of Manasseh has also received its heritage.
15 These two tribes and the half-tribe have received their heritage on the other side of the Jordan by Jericho, to the east, towards the sunrise.'
16 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said:
17 'Here are the names of the men who will divide the country up for you: the priest Eleazar and Joshua son of Nun,
18 and you will take one leader from each tribe to divide the country up into heritages.
19 Here are the names of these men: 'For the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh;
20 'for the tribe of the Simeonites, Shemuel son of Ammihud;
21 'for the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad son of Chislon;
22 'for the tribe of the Danites, the leader Bukki son of Jogli;
23 'for the sons of Joseph: for the tribe of Manasseh, the leader Hanniel son of Ephod;
24 'for the tribe of the Ephraimites, the leader Kemuel son of Shiphtan;
25 'for the tribe of the Zebulunites, the leader Elizaphan son of Parnach;
26 'for the tribe of the Issacharites, the leader Paltiel son of Azzan;
27 'for the tribe of the Asherites, the leader Ahihud son of Shelomi;
28 'for the tribe of the Naphtalites, the leader Pedahel son of Ammihud.'
29 These were the men whom Yahweh ordered to divide Canaan into heritages for the Israelites.
