1 Yahweh says this: For the three crimes, the four crimes of Moab, I have made my decree and will not relent: because they have burnt the bones of the king of Edom to ash,
2 I shall send fire down into Moab to devour the palaces of Kerioth, and Moab will die in the tumult, amid war cries and the blare of trumpets;
3 I shall destroy the ruler there and slaughter all the chief men there with him, says Yahweh.
4 Yahweh says this: For the three crimes, the four crimes of Judah, I have made my decree and will not relent: because they have despised Yahweh's law and not kept his commandments, since their Falsehoods, which their ancestors followed, have led them astray,
5 I shall send fire down on Judah to devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
6 Yahweh says this: For the three crimes, the four crimes of Israel, I have made my decree and will not relent: because they have sold the upright for silver and the poor for a pair of sandals,
7 because they have crushed the heads of the weak into the dust and thrust the rights of the oppressed to one side, father and son sleeping with the same girl and thus profaning my holy name,
8 lying down beside every altar on clothes acquired as pledges, and drinking the wine of the people they have fined in the house of their god.
9 Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them, he who was as tall as the cedars, as strong as the oaks; I who destroyed his fruit above ground and his roots below.
10 It was I who brought you up from Egypt and for forty years led you through the desert to take possession of the Amorite's country;
11 I who raised up prophets from your sons and Nazirites from your young men. Israelites, is this not true? -declares Yahweh!
12 But you have made the Nazirite drink wine and given orders to the prophets, 'Do not prophesy.'
13 Very well! Like a cart overloaded with sheaves I shall crush you where you stand;
14 flight will be cut off for the swift, the strong will have no chance to exert his strength nor the warrior be able to save his life;
15 the archer will not stand his ground, the swift of foot will not escape, nor will the horseman save his life;
16 even the bravest of warriors will jettison his arms and run away, that day! -declares Yahweh!
