1 I saw the Lord standing by the altar, and he said, 'Strike the top of the pillar so that the thresholds shake! Smash their heads in, one and all! And I shall put any survivors to the sword; whoever runs away will not run far, whoever escapes will not make good his escape.
2 Should they burrow into Sheol, my hand will haul them out; should they climb to heaven, I shall bring them down.
3 Should they hide on the top of Carmel, I shall track them down and catch them; should they hide from me on the sea bed, I shall order the Serpent there to bite them;
4 if their enemies herd them into captivity, I shall order the sword to kill them there, and I shall fix my eyes on them for evil and not for good.'
5 Lord Yahweh Sabaoth- he touches the earth and it melts, and all living things on it lament, as all rises together like the Nile in Egypt and then subsides like the Egyptian Nile.
6 He who builds his mansions in the heavens, supporting his vault on the earth; who summons the waters of the sea and pours them over the surface of the land: Yahweh is his name.
7 Are not you and the Cushites all the same to me, children of Israel? - declares Yahweh. Did I not bring Israel up from Egypt and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Aramaeans from Kir?
8 Look, Lord Yahweh's eyes are on the sinful kingdom, I shall wipe it off the face of the earth, although I shall not destroy the House of Jacob completely -declares Yahweh.
9 For look, I shall give the command and shall shake out the House of Israel among all nations as a sieve is shaken out without one grain falling on the ground.
10 All the sinners of my people will perish by the sword, who say, 'Disaster will never approach or overtake us.'
11 On that Day, I shall rebuild the tottering hut of David, make good the gaps in it, restore its ruins and rebuild it as it was in the days of old,
12 for them to be master of what is left of Edom and of all the nations once called mine -Yahweh declares, and he will perform it.
13 The days are coming- declares Yahweh- when the ploughman will tread on the heels of the reaper, and the treader of grapes on the heels of the sower of seed, and the mountains will run with new wine and the hills all flow with it.
14 I shall restore the fortunes of my people Israel; they will rebuild the ruined cities and live in them, they will plant vineyards and drink their wine, they will lay out gardens and eat their produce.
15 And I shall plant them in their own soil and they will never be uprooted again from the country which I have given them, declares Yahweh, your God.
