1 Peter ⌄

1 In the same way, you wives should be obedient to your husbands. Then if there are some husbands who do not believe the Word, they may find themselves won over, without a word spoken, by the way their wives behave,
2 when they see the reverence and purity of your way of life.
3 Your adornment should be not an exterior one, consisting of braided hair or gold jewellery or fine clothing,
4 but the interior disposition of the heart, consisting in the imperishable quality of a gentle and peaceful spirit, so precious in the sight of God.
5 That was how the holy women of the past dressed themselves attractively -- they hoped in God and were submissive to their husbands;
6 like Sarah, who was obedient to Abraham, and called him her lord. You are now her children, as long as you live good lives free from fear and worry.
7 In the same way, husbands must always treat their wives with consideration in their life together, respecting a woman as one who, though she may be the weaker partner, is equally an heir to the generous gift of life. This will prevent anything from coming in the way of your prayers.
8 Finally: you should all agree among yourselves and be sympathetic; love the brothers, have compassion and be self-effacing.
9 Never repay one wrong with another, or one abusive word with another; instead, repay with a blessing. That is what you are called to do, so that you inherit a blessing.
10 For Who among you delights in life, longs for time to enjoy prosperity? Guard your tongue from evil, your lips from any breath of deceit.
11 Turn away from evil and do good, seek peace and pursue it.
12 For the eyes of the Lord are on the upright, his ear turned to their cry. But the Lord's face is set against those who do evil.
13 No one can hurt you if you are determined to do only what is right;
14 and blessed are you if you have to suffer for being upright. Have no dread of them; have no fear.
15 Simply proclaim the Lord Christ holy in your hearts, and always have your answer ready for people who ask you the reason for the hope that you have.
16 But give it with courtesy and respect and with a clear conscience, so that those who slander your good behaviour in Christ may be ashamed of their accusations.
17 And if it is the will of God that you should suffer, it is better to suffer for doing right than for doing wrong.
18 Christ himself died once and for all for sins, the upright for the sake of the guilty, to lead us to God. In the body he was put to death, in the spirit he was raised to life,
19 and, in the spirit, he went to preach to the spirits in prison.
20 They refused to believe long ago, while God patiently waited to receive them, in Noah's time when the ark was being built. In it only a few, that is eight souls, were saved through water.
21 It is the baptism corresponding to this water which saves you now -- not the washing off of physical dirt but the pledge of a good conscience given to God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
22 who has entered heaven and is at God's right hand, with angels, ruling forces and powers subject to him.
