1 Peter ⌄

1 As Christ has undergone bodily suffering, you too should arm yourselves with the same conviction, that anyone who has undergone bodily suffering has broken with sin,
2 because for the rest of life on earth that person is ruled not by human passions but only by the will of God.
3 You spent quite long enough in the past living the sort of life that gentiles choose to live, behaving in a debauched way, giving way to your passions, drinking to excess, having wild parties and drunken orgies and sacrilegiously worshipping false gods.
4 So people are taken aback that you no longer hurry off with them to join this flood which is rushing down to ruin, and then abuse you for it.
5 They will have to answer for it before the judge who is to judge the living and the dead.
6 And this was why the gospel was brought to the dead as well, so that, though in their bodies they had undergone the judgement that faces all humanity, in their spirit they might enjoy the life of God.
7 The end of all things is near, so keep your minds calm and sober for prayer.
8 Above all preserve an intense love for each other, since love covers over many a sin.
9 Welcome each other into your houses without grumbling.
10 Each one of you has received a special grace, so, like good stewards responsible for all these varied graces of God, put it at the service of others.
11 If anyone is a speaker, let it be as the words of God, if anyone serves, let it be as in strength granted by God; so that in everything God may receive the glory, through Jesus Christ, since to him alone belong all glory and power for ever and ever. Amen.
12 My dear friends, do not be taken aback at the testing by fire which is taking place among you, as though something strange were happening to you;
13 but in so far as you share in the sufferings of Christ, be glad, so that you may enjoy a much greater gladness when his glory is revealed.
14 If you are insulted for bearing Christ's name, blessed are you, for on you rests the Spirit of God, the Spirit of glory.
15 None of you should ever deserve to suffer for being a murderer, a thief, a criminal or an informer;
16 but if any one of you should suffer for being a Christian, then there must be no shame but thanksgiving to God for bearing this name.
17 The time has come for the judgement to begin at the household of God; and if it begins with us, what will be the end for those who refuse to believe God's gospel?
18 If it is hard for the upright to be saved, what will happen to the wicked and to sinners?
19 So even those whom God allows to suffer should commit themselves to a Creator who is trustworthy, and go on doing good.
