1 Brothers, even if one of you is caught doing something wrong, those of you who are spiritual should set that person right in a spirit of gentleness; and watch yourselves that you are not put to the test in the same way.
2 Carry each other's burdens; that is how to keep the law of Christ.
3 Someone who thinks himself important, when he is not, only deceives himself;
4 but everyone is to examine his own achievements, and then he will confine his boasting to his own achievements, not comparing them with anybody else's.
5 Each one has his own load to carry.
6 When someone is under instruction in doctrine, he should give his teacher a share in all his possessions.
7 Don't delude yourself: God is not to be fooled; whatever someone sows, that is what he will reap.
8 If his sowing is in the field of self-indulgence, then his harvest from it will be corruption; if his sowing is in the Spirit, then his harvest from the Spirit will be eternal life.
9 And let us never slacken in doing good; for if we do not give up, we shall have our harvest in due time.
10 So then, as long as we have the opportunity let all our actions be for the good of everybody, and especially of those who belong to the household of the faith.
11 Notice what large letters I have used in writing to you with my own hand.
12 It is those who want to cut a figure by human standards who force circumcision on you, simply so that they will not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
13 Even though they are circumcised they still do not keep the Law themselves; they want you to be circumcised only so that they can boast of your outward appearance.
14 But as for me, it is out of the question that I should boast at all, except of the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
15 It is not being circumcised or uncircumcised that matters; but what matters is a new creation.
16 Peace and mercy to all who follow this as their rule and to the Israel of God.
17 After this, let no one trouble me; I carry branded on my body the marks of Jesus.
18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, my brothers. Amen.
