1 'Yahweh then said to me, "Cut two stone tablets like the first ones, and come up to me on the mountain. Make an ark of wood;
2 on the tablets I shall inscribe the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke; put them in the ark."
3 So I made an ark of acacia wood, cut two stone tablets like the first and went up the mountain with the two tablets in my hand.
4 And he inscribed the tablets, as he had inscribed them before, with the Ten Words which Yahweh had said to you on the mountain, from the heart of the fire, on the day of the Assembly. Yahweh then gave them to me.
5 I turned and came down from the mountain and put the tablets in the ark I had made, and there they stayed, as Yahweh had commanded me.
6 'The Israelites left the wells of the Bene-Jaakan for Moserah, where Aaron died; he was buried there, and his son Eleazar succeeded him in the priesthood.
7 From there, they set out for Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah for Jotbathah, an area rich in streams.
8 Yahweh then set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of Yahweh's covenant, to stand in the presence of Yahweh, to serve him and to bless in his name, as they still do today.
9 This is why Levi has no share or heritage with his brothers: Yahweh is his heritage, as Yahweh your God then told him.
10 'And, as before, I stayed on the mountain for forty days and forty nights. And again Yahweh heard my prayer and agreed not to destroy you.
11 And Yahweh said to me, "Be on your way at the head of this people, so that they can go and take possession of the country which I swore to their ancestors that I would give them."
12 'And now, Israel, what does Yahweh your God ask of you? Only this: to fear Yahweh your God, to follow all his ways, to love him, to serve Yahweh your God with all your heart and all your soul,
13 to keep the commandments and laws of Yahweh, which I am laying down for you today for your own good.
14 'Look, to Yahweh your God belong heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth and everything on it;
15 yet it was on your ancestors, for love of them, that Yahweh set his heart to love them, and he chose their descendants after them, you yourselves, out of all nations, up to the present day.
16 Circumcise your heart then and be obstinate no longer;
17 for Yahweh your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great God, triumphant and terrible, free of favouritism, never to be bribed.
18 He it is who sees justice done for the orphan and the widow, who loves the stranger and gives him food and clothing.
19 (Love the stranger then, for you were once strangers in Egypt.)
20 Yahweh your God is the one whom you must fear and serve; to him you must hold firm; in his name take your oaths.
21 Him you must praise, he is your God: for you he has done these great and terrible things which you have seen for yourselves;
22 and, although your ancestors numbered only seventy persons when they went down to Egypt, Yahweh your God has now made you as many as the stars of heaven.'
