1 Moses and the elders of Israel gave the people this command: 'Keep all the commandments which I am laying down for you today.
2 After you have crossed the Jordan into the country which Yahweh your God is giving you, you must set up tall stones, coat them with lime
3 and on them write all the words of this Law, when you have crossed and entered the country which Yahweh your God is giving you, a country flowing with milk and honey, as Yahweh, God of your ancestors, has promised you.
4 'When you have crossed the Jordan, you must erect these stones on Mount Ebal, as I command you today, and coat them with lime.
5 There, for Yahweh your God, you must build an altar of stones, on which no iron has been used.
6 You must build the altar of Yahweh your God of rough stones, and on this altar you will present burnt offerings to Yahweh your God,
7 and immolate communion sacrifices and eat them there, rejoicing in the presence of Yahweh your God.
8 On these stones you must write all the words of this Law; cut them carefully.'
9 Moses and the levitical priests then said to all Israel: 'Be silent, Israel, and listen. Today you have become a people for Yahweh your God.
10 You must listen to the voice of Yahweh your God and observe the commandments and laws which I am laying down for you today.'
11 That day Moses gave the people this order:
12 'When you have crossed the Jordan, the following will stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people: Simeon and Levi, Judah and Issachar, Joseph and Benjamin.
13 And the following will stand on Mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben, Gad and Asher, Zebulun, Dan and Naphtali.
14 The Levites will then speak, proclaiming loudly to all the Israelites:
15 "Accursed be anyone who makes a carved or cast idol, a thing detestable to Yahweh, a workman's artefact, and sets it up in secret." And the people are all to respond by saying, Amen.
16 "Accursed be anyone who treats father or mother dishonourably." And the people must all say, Amen.
17 "Accursed be anyone who displaces a neighbour's boundary mark." And the people must all say, Amen.
18 "Accursed be anyone who leads the blind astray on the road." And the people must all say, Amen.
19 "Accursed be anyone who violates the rights of the foreigner, the orphan and the widow." And the people must all say, Amen.
20 "Accursed be anyone who has sexual intercourse with his father's wife and withdraws the skirt of his father's cloak from her." And the people must all say, Amen.
21 "Accursed be anyone who has sexual intercourse with any kind of animal." And the people must all say, Amen.
22 "Accursed be anyone who has sexual intercourse with his sister, the daughter of his father or of his mother." And the people must all say, Amen.
23 "Accursed be anyone who has sexual intercourse with his mother-in-law." And the people must all say, Amen.
24 "Accursed be anyone who secretly strikes down his neighbour." And the people must all say, Amen.
25 "Accursed be anyone who accepts a bribe to take an innocent life." And the people must all say, Amen.
26 "Accursed be anyone who does not make the words of this Law effective by putting them into practice." And the people must all say, Amen.'
