1 The Lamb then broke the seventh seal, and there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
2 Next I saw seven trumpets being given to the seven angels who stand in the presence of God.
3 Another angel, who had a golden censer, came and stood at the altar. A large quantity of incense was given to him to offer with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar that stood in front of the throne;
4 and so from the angel's hand the smoke of the incense went up in the presence of God and with it the prayers of the saints.
5 Then the angel took the censer and filled it from the fire of the altar, which he then hurled down onto the earth; immediately there came peals of thunder and flashes of lightning, and the earth shook.
6 The seven angels that had the seven trumpets now made ready to sound them.
7 The first blew his trumpet and, with that, hail and fire, mixed with blood, were hurled on the earth: a third of the earth was burnt up, and a third of all trees, and every blade of grass was burnt.
8 The second angel blew his trumpet, and it was as though a great mountain blazing with fire was hurled into the sea: a third of the sea turned into blood,
9 a third of all the living things in the sea were killed, and a third of all ships were destroyed.
10 The third angel blew his trumpet, and a huge star fell from the sky, burning like a ball of fire, and it fell on a third of all rivers and on the springs of water;
11 this was the star called Wormwood, and a third of all water turned to wormwood, so that many people died; the water had become so bitter.
12 The fourth angel blew his trumpet, and a third of the sun and a third of the moon and a third of the stars were blasted, so that the light went out of a third of them and the day lost a third of its illumination, and likewise the night.
13 In my vision, I heard an eagle, calling aloud as it flew high overhead, 'Disaster, disaster, disaster, on all the people on earth at the sound of the other three trumpets which the three angels have yet to blow!'
