1 Then I heard a loud voice from the sanctuary calling to the seven angels, 'Go, and empty the seven bowls of God's anger over the earth.'
2 The first angel went and emptied his bowl over the earth; at once, on all the people who had been branded with the mark of the beast and had worshipped its statue, there came disgusting and virulent sores.
3 The second angel emptied his bowl over the sea, and it turned to blood, like the blood of a corpse, and every living creature in the sea died.
4 The third angel emptied his bowl into the rivers and springs of water and they turned into blood.
5 Then I heard the angel of water say, 'You are the Upright One, He who is, He who was, the Holy One, for giving this verdict:
6 they spilt the blood of the saints and the prophets, and blood is what you have given them to drink; it is what they deserve.'
7 And I heard the altar itself say, 'Truly, Lord God Almighty, the punishments you give are true and just.'
8 The fourth angel emptied his bowl over the sun and it was made to scorch people with its flames;
9 but though people were scorched by the fierce heat of it, they cursed the name of God who had the power to cause such plagues, and they would not repent and glorify him.
10 The fifth angel emptied his bowl over the throne of the beast and its whole empire was plunged into darkness. People were biting their tongues for pain,
11 but instead of repenting for what they had done, they cursed the God of heaven because of their pains and sores.
12 The sixth angel emptied his bowl over the great river Euphrates; all the water dried up so that a way was made for the kings of the East to come in.
13 Then from the jaws of dragon and beast and false prophet I saw three foul spirits come; they looked like frogs
14 and in fact were demon spirits, able to work miracles, going out to all the kings of the world to call them together for the war of the Great Day of God the Almighty.-
15 Look, I shall come like a thief. Blessed is anyone who has kept watch, and has kept his clothes on, so that he does not go out naked and expose his shame.-
16 They called the kings together at the place called, in Hebrew, Armageddon.
17 The seventh angel emptied his bowl into the air, and a great voice boomed out from the sanctuary, 'The end has come.'
18 Then there were flashes of lightning and peals of thunder and a violent earthquake, unparalleled since humanity first came into existence.
19 The Great City was split into three parts and the cities of the world collapsed; Babylon the Great was not forgotten: God made her drink the full winecup of his retribution.
20 Every island vanished and the mountains disappeared;
21 and hail, with great hailstones weighing a talent each, fell from the sky on the people. They cursed God for sending a plague of hail; it was the most terrible plague.
