1 Then the angel showed me the river of life, rising from the throne of God and of the Lamb and flowing crystal-clear.
2 Down the middle of the city street, on either bank of the river were the trees of life, which bear twelve crops of fruit in a year, one in each month, and the leaves of which are the cure for the nations.
3 The curse of destruction will be abolished. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city; his servants will worship him,
4 they will see him face to face, and his name will be written on their foreheads.
5 And night will be abolished; they will not need lamplight or sunlight, because the Lord God will be shining on them. They will reign for ever and ever.
6 The angel said to me, 'All that you have written is sure and will come true: the Lord God who inspires the prophets has sent his angel to reveal to his servants what is soon to take place.
7 I am coming soon!' Blessed are those who keep the prophetic message of this book.
8 I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. When I had heard and seen them all, I knelt at the feet of the angel who had shown them to me, to worship him;
9 but he said, 'Do no such thing: I am your fellow-servant and the fellow-servant of your brothers the prophets and those who keep the message of this book. God alone you must worship.'
10 This, too, he said to me, 'Do not keep the prophecies in this book a secret, because the Time is close.
11 Meanwhile let the sinner continue sinning, and the unclean continue to be unclean; let the upright continue in his uprightness, and those who are holy continue to be holy.
12 Look, I am coming soon, and my reward is with me, to repay everyone as their deeds deserve.
13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
14 Blessed are those who will have washed their robes clean, so that they will have the right to feed on the tree of life and can come through the gates into the city.
15 Others must stay outside: dogs, fortune-tellers, and the sexually immoral, murderers, idolaters, and everyone of false speech and false life.'
16 I, Jesus, have sent my angel to attest these things to you for the sake of the churches. I am the sprig from the root of David and the bright star of the morning.
17 The Spirit and the Bride say, 'Come!' Let everyone who listens answer, 'Come!' Then let all who are thirsty come: all who want it may have the water of life, and have it free.
18 This is my solemn attestation to all who hear the prophecies in this book: if anyone adds anything to them, God will add to him every plague mentioned in the book;
19 if anyone cuts anything out of the prophecies in this book, God will cut off his share of the tree of life and of the holy city, which are described in the book.
20 The one who attests these things says: I am indeed coming soon. Amen; come, Lord Jesus.
21 May the grace of the Lord Jesus be with you all. Amen.
