1 It was Wisdom who protected the first man to be fashioned, the father of the world, who had been created all alone, she it was who rescued him from his fall
2 and gave him the strength to subjugate all things.
3 But when in his wrath a wicked man deserted her, he perished in his fratricidal fury.
4 When because of him the earth was drowned, it was Wisdom again who saved it, piloting the upright man on valueless timber.
5 Again, when, concurring in wickedness, the nations had been thrown into confusion, she singled out the upright man, preserved him blameless before God and fortified him against pity for his child.
6 She it was who, while the godless perished, saved the upright man as he fled from the fire raining down on the Five Cities,
7 in witness against whose evil ways a desolate land still smokes, where plants bear fruit that never ripens and where, monument to an unbelieving soul, there stands a pillar of salt.
8 For, by ignoring the path of Wisdom, not only did they suffer the loss of not knowing the good, but they left the world a memorial to their folly, so that their offences could not pass unnoticed.
9 But Wisdom delivered her servants from their ordeals.
10 The upright man, fleeing from the anger of his brother, was led by her along straight paths. She showed him the kingdom of God and taught him the knowledge of holy things. She brought him success in his labours and gave him full return for all his efforts;
11 she stood by him against grasping and oppressive men and she made him rich.
12 She preserved him from his enemies and saved him from the traps they set for him. In an arduous struggle she awarded him the prize, to teach him that piety is stronger than all.
13 She did not forsake the upright man when he was sold, but snatched him away from sin;
14 she accompanied him down into the pit, nor did she abandon him in his chains until she had brought him the sceptre of a kingdom and authority over his despotic masters, thus exposing as liars those who had traduced him, and giving him honour everlasting.
15 It was Wisdom who delivered a holy people, a blameless race, from a nation of oppressors.
16 She entered the soul of a servant of the Lord, and withstood fearsome kings with wonders and signs.
17 To the holy people she gave the wages of their labours; she guided them by a marvellous road, herself their shelter by day -- and their starlight through the night.
18 She brought them across the Red Sea, leading them through an immensity of water,
19 whereas she drowned their enemies, then spat them out from the depths of the abyss.
20 So the upright despoiled the godless; Lord, they extolled your holy name, and with one accord praised your protecting hand;
21 for Wisdom opened the mouths of the dumb and made eloquent the tongues of babes.
