1 So then, my brothers and dear friends whom I miss so much, my joy and my crown, hold firm in the Lord, dear friends.
2 I urge Euodia, and I urge Syntyche to come to agreement with each other in the Lord;
3 and I ask you, Syzygus, really to be a 'partner' and help them. These women have struggled hard for the gospel with me, along with Clement and all my other fellow-workers, whose names are written in the book of life.
4 Always be joyful, then, in the Lord; I repeat, be joyful.
5 Let your good sense be obvious to everybody. The Lord is near.
6 Never worry about anything; but tell God all your desires of every kind in prayer and petition shot through with gratitude,
7 and the peace of God which is beyond our understanding will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
8 Finally, brothers, let your minds be filled with everything that is true, everything that is honourable, everything that is upright and pure, everything that we love and admire -- with whatever is good and praiseworthy.
9 Keep doing everything you learnt from me and were told by me and have heard or seen me doing. Then the God of peace will be with you.
10 As for me, I am full of joy in the Lord, now that at last your consideration for me has blossomed again; though I recognise that you really did have consideration before, but had no opportunity to show it.
11 I do not say this because I have lacked anything; I have learnt to manage with whatever I have.
12 I know how to live modestly, and I know how to live luxuriously too: in every way now I have mastered the secret of all conditions: full stomach and empty stomach, plenty and poverty.
13 There is nothing I cannot do in the One who strengthens me.
14 All the same, it was good of you to share with me in my hardships.
15 In the early days of the gospel, as you of Philippi well know, when I left Macedonia, no church other than yourselves made common account with me in the matter of expenditure and receipts. You were the only ones;
16 and what is more, you have twice sent me what I needed in Thessalonica.
17 It is not the gift that I value most; what I value is the interest that is mounting up in your account.
18 I have all that I need and more: I am fully provided, now that I have received from Epaphroditus the offering that you sent, a pleasing smell, the sacrifice which is acceptable and pleasing to God.
19 And my God will fulfil all your needs out of the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
20 And so glory be to God our Father, for ever and ever. Amen.
21 My greetings to every one of God's holy people in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me send you their greetings.
22 All God's holy people send you their greetings, especially those of Caesar's household.
23 May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
