1 The vision of Isaiah son of Amoz, concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
2 It will happen in the final days that the mountain of Yahweh's house will rise higher than the mountains and tower above the heights. Then all the nations will stream to it,
3 many peoples will come to it and say, 'Come, let us go up to the mountain of Yahweh, to the house of the God of Jacob that he may teach us his ways so that we may walk in his paths.' For the Law will issue from Zion and the word of Yahweh from Jerusalem.
4 Then he will judge between the nations and arbitrate between many peoples. They will hammer their swords into ploughshares and their spears into sickles. Nation will not lift sword against nation, no longer will they learn how to make war.
5 House of Jacob, come, let us walk in Yahweh's light.
6 You have rejected your people, the House of Jacob, for it has long been full of sorcerers like the Philistines, and is overrun with foreigners.
7 The country is full of silver and gold and treasures unlimited, the country is full of horses, its chariots are unlimited;
8 the country is full of idols. They bow down before the work of their hands, before what their own fingers have made.
9 Human nature has been humbled, humankind brought low: do not raise them again!
10 Go into the rock, hide in the dust, in terror of Yahweh, at the brilliance of his majesty, when he arises to make the earth quake.
11 Human pride will lower its eyes, human arrogance will be humbled, and Yahweh alone will be exalted, on that day.
12 That will be a day for Yahweh Sabaoth, for all who are majestic and haughty, for all who are proud, to be brought low,
13 for all the cedars of Lebanon, high and proud, and for all the oaks of Bashan;
14 for all the high mountains and for all the proud hills;
15 for every lofty tower and for every towering wall;
16 for all the ships of Tarshish and for everything held precious.
17 Human pride will be humbled, human arrogance brought low, and Yahweh alone will be exalted, on that day.
18 When the idols all disappear,
19 they will go into the caverns of the rocks and into the fissures of the earth in terror of Yahweh, at the brilliance of his majesty, when he arises to make the earth quake.
20 That day, people will fling to moles and bats the silver idols and golden idols which have been made for them to worship,
21 and go into the crevices of the rocks and the clefts in the cliffs, in terror of Yahweh, at the brilliance of his majesty, when he arises to make the earth quake.
22 Have no more to do with humankind, which has only the breath in its nostrils. How much is this worth?
