1 Now the Lord Yahweh Sabaoth is about to deprive Jerusalem and Judah of resources and provisions -- all reserves of food, all reserves of water-
2 of hero, warrior, judge, prophet, diviner, elder,
3 captain, dignitary, counsellor, architect, soothsayer.
4 'I shall give them boys for princes, raw lads to rule over them.'
5 People will be ill-treated by one another, each by his neighbour; the young will insult the aged, and the low, the respected.
6 Yes, a man will catch hold of his brother in their father's house, to say, 'You have a cloak, so you be leader, and rule this heap of ruins.'
7 And, that day, the other will protest, 'I am no healer; in my house there is neither food nor clothing; do not make me leader of the people.'
8 For Jerusalem has collapsed and Judah has fallen, because their words and deeds affront Yahweh and insult his glorious gaze.
9 Their complacency bears witness against them, they parade their sin like Sodom; they do not conceal it, all the worse for them, for they have hatched their own downfall.
10 Say, 'Blessed the upright, for he will feed on the fruit of his deeds;
11 woe to the wicked, it will go ill with him, for he will be treated as his actions deserve.'
12 O my people, their oppressors pillage them and extortioners rule over them! O my people, your rulers mislead you and efface the paths you ought to follow!
13 Yahweh has risen to accuse, is standing to pass judgement on the people.
14 Yahweh is about to try the elders and the princes of his people, 'You are the ones who have ravaged the vineyard, the spoils of the poor are in your houses.
15 By what right do you crush my people and grind the faces of the poor?' says the Lord Yahweh Sabaoth.
16 Yahweh says: Because Zion's daughters are proud and walk with heads held high and enticing eyes -- with mincing steps they go, jingling the bangles on their feet-
17 the Lord will give Zion's daughters scabby heads, Yahweh will lay their foreheads bare.
18 That day the Lord will take away the ornamental chains, medallions, crescents,
19 pendants, bracelets, trinkets,
20 diadems, ankle-chains, necklaces, scent bottles, amulets,
21 finger-rings, nose-rings,
22 party dresses, cloaks, scarves, purses,
23 mirrors, linen clothes, turbans and mantillas.
24 Then, instead of perfume, a stink; instead of belt, a rope, instead of hair elaborately dressed, a shaven scalp, instead of gorgeous clothes, sacking round the waist, and brand marks instead of beauty.
25 Your men will fall by the sword, your warriors in battle,
26 and her gates will moan and mourn; she will sit on the ground, deserted.
