1 The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light; on the inhabitants of a country in shadow dark as death light has blazed forth.
2 You have enlarged the nation, you have increased its joy; they rejoice before you as people rejoice at harvest time, as they exult when they are dividing the spoils.
3 For the yoke that weighed on it, the bar across its shoulders, the rod of its oppressor, these you have broken as on the day of Midian.
4 For all the footgear clanking over the ground and all the clothing rolled in blood, will be burnt, will be food for the flames.
5 For a son has been born for us, a son has been given to us, and dominion has been laid on his shoulders; and this is the name he has been given, 'Wonder-Counsellor, Mighty-God, Eternal-Father, Prince-of-Peace'
6 to extend his dominion in boundless peace, over the throne of David and over his kingdom to make it secure and sustain it in fair judgement and integrity. From this time onwards and for ever, the jealous love of Yahweh Sabaoth will do this.
7 The Lord has launched a word at Jacob and it has fallen on Israel;
8 and the people will all soon know it, Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, who say in the pride of their arrogant hearts,
9 'The bricks have fallen down but we shall rebuild with dressed stone; the sycamores have been felled but we shall replace them with cedars.'
10 But, against them, Yahweh has raised their foe Razon, he has whipped up their enemies,
11 Aram to the east, Philistines to the west, to devour Israel with gaping jaws. After all this, his anger is not spent. No, his hand is still raised!
12 But the people would not come back to him who struck them, they would not seek out Yahweh Sabaoth;
13 hence Yahweh has topped and tailed Israel, cutting off palm and reed in a single day.
14 (The 'top' is the elder and the man of rank; the 'tail' is the prophet teaching lies.)
15 This people's leaders have led them astray, and those who are led by them are swallowed up.
16 Hence the Lord will no longer take delight in their young people, or pity on their orphans and widows, since all of them are godless and evil, and everything they say is madness. After all this, his anger is not spent. No, his hand is still raised!
17 Yes, wickedness has been burning like a fire, devouring bramble and thorn-bush, setting the forest thickets ablaze -- up they go in billowing smoke!
18 The country has been set on fire by the fury of Yahweh Sabaoth, and the people are like food for the flames. No one spares a thought for his brother.
19 They have sliced to the right and are still hungry, they have eaten to the left and are not satisfied; each devours the flesh of his own arm.
20 Manasseh devours Ephraim, Ephraim Manasseh, together they turn against Judah. After all this, his anger is not spent. No, his hand is still raised!
