1 Proclamation about Egypt: Look! Yahweh, riding a swift cloud, is coming to Egypt. The false gods of Egypt totter before him and Egypt's heart quails within her.
2 I shall stir up Egypt against Egypt, they will fight one another, brother against brother, friend against friend, city against city, kingdom against kingdom.
3 Egypt's spirit will fail within her and I shall confound her deliberations. They will consult false gods and wizards, ghosts and sorcerers.
4 And I shall hand Egypt over to the clutches of a cruel master, a ruthless king will rule them -- declares Yahweh Sabaoth.
5 The waters will ebb from the sea, the river will dry up and run low,
6 the streams will become foul, the rivers of Egypt sink and dry up. Rush and reed will turn black,
7 the Nile-plants on the banks of the Nile; all the vegetation of the Nile, will wither, blow away and be no more.
8 The fishermen will groan, it will be mourning for all who cast hook in the Nile; those who spread nets on the waters will lose heart.
9 The workers of carded flax and the weavers of white cloth will be confounded,
10 the weavers dismayed, all the workmen dejected.
11 Yes, the princes of Zoan are fools, Pharaoh's wisest councillors make up a stupid council. How dare you say to Pharaoh, 'I am descended from sages, I am descended from bygone kings'?
12 Where are these sages of yours? Let them tell you, so that all may know, the plans Yahweh Sabaoth has made against Egypt!
13 The princes of Zoan are fools, the princes of Noph, self-deceivers, the top men of her provinces have led Egypt astray.
14 Yahweh has infused them with a giddy spirit; they have led Egypt astray in all she undertakes like a drunkard straying about as he vomits.
15 Nowadays no one does for Egypt what top and tail, palm and reed used to do.
16 That day Egypt will be like women, trembling and terrified at the threatening hand of Yahweh Sabaoth, when he raises it against her.
17 The land of Judah will become Egypt's shame; whenever she is reminded of it, she will be terrified, because of the plan which Yahweh Sabaoth has laid against her.
18 That day in Egypt there will be five towns speaking the language of Canaan and pledging themselves to Yahweh Sabaoth; one of them will be called City of the Sun.
19 That day there will be an altar dedicated to Yahweh in the centre of Egypt and, close to the frontier, a pillar dedicated to Yahweh,
20 and this will be a sign and a witness to Yahweh Sabaoth in Egypt. When they cry to Yahweh for help because of oppressors, he will send them a Saviour and leader to deliver them.
21 Yahweh will reveal himself to Egypt, and the Egyptians will acknowledge Yahweh that day and will offer sacrifices and cereal offerings, and will make vows to Yahweh and perform them.
22 And if Yahweh strikes Egypt, having struck he will heal, and they will turn to Yahweh who will hear their prayers and heal them.
23 That day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria. Assyria will have access to Egypt and Egypt have access to Assyria. Egypt will serve with Assyria.
24 That day Israel will make a third with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing at the centre of the world,
25 and Yahweh Sabaoth will bless them in the words, 'Blessed be my people Egypt, Assyria my creation, and Israel my heritage.'
