1 Who is this coming from Edom, from Bozrah in crimson garments, so magnificently dressed, marching so full of strength? - It is I, whose word is saving justice, whose power is to save.
2 -Why are your garments red, your clothes like someone treading the winepress?
3 -I have trodden the winepress alone; of my people, not one was with me. So I trod them down in my anger, I trampled on them in my wrath. Their blood squirted over my garments and all my clothes are stained.
4 For I have decided on a day of vengeance, my year of retribution has come.
5 I looked: there was no one to help me; I was appalled but could find no supporter! Then my own arm came to my rescue and my own fury supported me.
6 I crushed the peoples in my anger, I shattered them in my fury and sent their blood streaming to the ground.
7 I shall recount Yahweh's acts of faithful love, Yahweh's praises, in return for all that Yahweh has done for us, for his great kindness to the House of Israel, for all that he has done in his mercy, for the abundance of his acts of faithful love.
8 For he said, 'Truly they are my people, children who will not betray me,' and he became their Saviour.
9 In all their troubles, it was no messenger or angel but his presence that saved them. In his love and pity he himself redeemed them, lifted them up and carried them throughout the days of old.
10 But they rebelled and vexed his holy Spirit. Then he became their enemy and himself waged war on them.
11 But he called the past to mind, Moses his servant. Where is he who saved them from the sea, the Shepherd of his flock? Where was he who put his holy Spirit among them,
12 whose glorious arm led the way by Moses' right hand? Who divided the waters before them to win himself everlasting renown,
13 who led them through the depths as easily as a horse through the desert? They stumbled as little
14 as cattle going down to the plain. Yahweh's Spirit led them to rest. This was how you guided your people to win yourself glorious renown.
15 Look down from heaven and see from your holy and glorious dwelling. Where is your zeal and your might? Are your deepest feelings, your mercy to me, to be restrained?
16 After all, you are our Father. If Abraham will not own us, if Israel will not acknowledge us, you, Yahweh, are our Father, 'Our Redeemer' is your name from of old.
17 Why, Yahweh, do you let us wander from your ways and let our hearts grow too hard to fear you? Return, for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your heritage.
18 Your holy people have owned it for so short a time, our enemies have trampled on your sanctuary.
19 We have long been like those you do not rule, people who do not bear your name. Oh, that you would tear the heavens open and come down -- in your presence the mountains would quake,
