1 The portion falling to the tribe of the sons of Judah, by clans, was near the frontier of Edom, from the desert of Zin southwards to Kadesh in the south.
2 Their southern frontier began at the tip of the Salt Sea, at the southerly bay;
3 it proceeded south of the Ascent of Scorpions, crossed Zin and came up to Kadesh-Barnea from the south; past Hezron, it went on to Addar and turned towards Karka;
4 the frontier then went on to Azmon, came out at the Torrent of Egypt and reached as far as the sea. This is to be your southern frontier.
5 The eastern frontier was the Salt Sea as far as the mouth of the Jordan.
6 The northern boundary began at the bay at the mouth of the Jordan. The boundary went up to Beth-Hoglah, passed north of Beth-ha-Arabah and went on to the Stone of Bohan son of Reuben.
7 The boundary then went on to Debir from the Vale of Achor and turned north towards the stone circle opposite the Ascent of Adummim, which is south of the Torrent; the boundary went on to the Waters of En-Shemesh and came out at En-Rogel.
8 It then went back up the Valley of Hinnom, coming from the south to the flank of the Jebusite -- that is, Jerusalem -- and climbed to the crest of the mountain barring the Valley of Hinnom to the west, at the northern end of the Valley of the Rephaim.
9 From the mountain top, the boundary curved round to the spring of the Waters of Nephtoah, went on to the towns of Mount Ephron and then turned towards Baalah -- that is, Kiriath-Jearim.
10 From Baalah, the boundary curved westwards to the highlands of Seir, skirted the northern slope of Mount Jearim -- that is, Chesalon -- went down to Beth-Shemesh and through Timnah,
11 came out on the northern flank of Ekron, turned towards Shikkeron and, passing through the highlands of Baalah, came out at Jabneel, and reached as far as the sea.
12 The western boundary was the Great Sea itself. Such was the frontier surrounding the sons of Judah, by clans.
13 Caleb son of Jephunneh was given a share within that of the sons of Judah, in accordance with Yahweh's order to Joshua: Kiriath-Arba, the town of the father of Anak -- that is, Hebron.
14 Caleb drove out the three sons of Anak: Sheshai, Ahiman and Talmai, descended from Anak.
15 From there he marched on the inhabitants of Debir; Debir in olden days was called Kiriath-Sepher.
16 Caleb then said, 'To the man who attacks and takes Kiriath-Sepher, I shall give my daughter Achsah as wife.'
17 The man who captured it was Othniel son of Kenaz, brother of Caleb, who gave him his daughter Achsah as wife.
18 When she arrived, he urged her to ask her father for arable land, but when she alighted from the donkey and Caleb asked her, 'What is the matter?'
19 she said to him, 'Grant me a blessing! As the land you have given me is the Negeb, give me springs of water too!' So Caleb gave her what she wanted, the upper springs and the lower springs.
20 Such was the heritage of the tribe of the sons of Judah, by clans.
21 Towns at the extremity of the tribe of the sons of Judah, near the frontier of Edom in the Negeb: Kabzeel, Arad, Jagur,
22 Kinah, Dimon, Aroer,
23 Kedesh, Hazor-Ithnan,
24 Ziph, Telem, Bealoth,
25 Hazor-Hadattah, Kiriath-Hezron -- that is, Hazor-
26 Amam, Shema, Moladah,
27 Hazar-Gaddah, Heshmon, Beth-Pelet,
28 Hazar-Shual, Beersheba and its dependencies,
29 Baalah, Iim, Ezem,
30 Eltolad, Chesil, Hormah,
31 Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah,
32 Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain and Rimmon: in all, twenty-nine towns with their villages.
33 In the lowlands: Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah,
34 Zanoah, En-Gannim, Tappuah, Enam,
35 Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Azekah,
36 Shaaraim, Aditaim, Ha-Gederah and Gederothaim: fourteen towns with their villages.
37 Zenan, Hadashah, Migdal-Gad,
38 Dilean, Ha-Mizpeh, Jokteel,
39 Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon,
40 Cabbon, Lahmas, Chitlish,
41 Gederoth, Beth-Dagon, Naamah and Makkedah: sixteen towns with their villages.
42 Libna, Ether, Asham,
43 Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib,
44 Keilah, Achzib and Mareshah: nine towns with their villages.
45 Ekron with its dependencies and its villages.
46 From Ekron to the sea, everything to the side of Ashdod, with its villages.
47 Ashdod with its dependencies and its villages; Gaza with its dependencies and its villages as far as the Torrent of Egypt, the Great Sea forming the boundary.
48 In the highlands: Shamir, Jattir, Socoh,
49 Dannah, Kiriath-Sepher, now Debir,
50 Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim,
51 Goshen, Holon and Giloh: eleven towns with their villages.
52 Arab, Dumah, Eshan,
53 Janum, Beth-Tappuah, Aphekah,
54 Humtah, Kiriath-Arba, now Hebron, and Zior: nine towns with their villages.
55 Maon, Carmel, Ziph, Juttah,
56 Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah,
57 Ha-Kain, Gibeah and Timnah: ten towns with their villages.
58 Halhul, Beth-Zur, Gedor,
59 Maarath, Beth-Anoth and Eltekon: six towns with their villages. Tekoa, Ephrathah, now Bethlehem, Peor, Etam, Kulon, Tatam, Sores, Carem, Gallim, Bether and Manach: eleven towns with their villages.
60 Kiriath-Baal, that is Kiriath-Jearim, and Rabbah: two towns with their villages.
61 In the desert: Beth-Arabah, Middin, Secacah,
62 Nibshan, Salt Town and En-Gedi: six towns with their villages.
63 The Jebusites, however, who lived in Jerusalem, the sons of Judah were unable to dispossess, and the Jebusites still live in Jerusalem today, side by side with the sons of Judah.
