1 The second lot to come out was for Simeon, for the tribe of the sons of Simeon, by clans; their heritage was within the heritage of the sons of Judah.
2 As heritage, they received:
3 Beersheba, Shema, Moladah,
4 Hazar-Shual, Balah, Ezem, Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah,
5 Ziklag, Beth-ha-Marcaboth, Hazar-Susa,
6 Beth-Lebaoth and Sharuhen: thirteen towns and their villages.
7 Ain, Rimmon, Ether and Ashan: four towns and their villages,
8 with all the villages situated near these towns as far as Baalath-Beer and Ramah of the Negeb. Such was the heritage of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, by clans.
9 The heritage of the sons of Simeon was taken out of the portion of the sons of Judah, because the share of the sons of Judah was too large for them; hence, the sons of Simeon received their heritage within the heritage of the sons of Judah.
10 The third lot fell to the sons of Zebulun, by clans; the territory of their heritage stretched as far as Sadud;
11 their frontier climbed westwards to Maraalah, touching Dabbesheth and the torrent facing Jokneam.
12 From Sadud, the frontier turned east, towards the rising sun, as far as the frontier of Chisloth-Tabor; it came out at Dobrath and went up to Japhia.
13 Thence, it went east, towards the sunrise, to Gath-Hepher and Ittah-Kazin, came out at Rimmon and turned towards Neah.
14 The northern frontier turned towards Hannathon and came to an end in the Valley of Iphtah-El;
15 with Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Iralah and Bethlehem: twelve towns with their villages.
16 Such was the heritage of the sons of Zebulun, by clans: these towns with their villages.
17 The fourth lot came out for Issachar, for the sons of Issachar, by clans.
18 Their territory stretched towards Jezreel and included Chesulloth, Shunem,
19 Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath,
20 Dobrath, Kishion, Ebez,
21 Remeth, En-Gannim, En-Haddah and Beth-Pazzez.
22 Their frontier touched Tabor, Shahazimah and Beth-Shemesh, and the frontier came to an end at the Jordan: sixteen towns with their villages.
23 Such was the heritage of the tribe of the sons of Issachar, by clans: the towns and their villages.
24 The fifth lot came out for the tribe of the sons of Asher, by clans.
25 Their territory included Helkath, Hali, Beten, Achshaph,
26 Alammelech, Amad and Mishal.
27 On the west, it touched Carmel and the course of the Libnath. On the side of the rising sun, it went as far as Beth-Dagon, touched Zebulun, the Valley of Iphtah-El on the north side, Beth-ha-Emek and Neiel, coming out with Cabul on the left,
28 with Abdon, Rehob, Hammon and Kanah as far as Sidon the Great. The frontier then turned towards Ramah, as far as the fortress-town of Tyre;
29 the frontier then went to Hosah and reached as far as the sea at Mahalab and Achzib,
30 with Acco, Aphek and Rehob: twenty-two towns with their villages.
31 Such was the heritage of the tribe of the sons of Asher, by clans; these towns and their villages.
32 To the sons of Naphtali fell the sixth portion, to the sons of Naphtali, by clans.
33 Their frontier went from Heleph and the Oak of Zanaannim, with Adami-ha-Negeb and Jabneel, as far as Lakkum, and ended at the Jordan.
34 The westward boundary ran to Aznoth-Tabor and thence came out at Hukkok, marching with Zebulun in the south, Asher in the west and the Jordan in the east.
35 The fortified towns were Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Chinnereth,
36 Adamah, Ramah, Hazor,
37 Kedesh, Edrei, En-Hazor,
38 Jiron, Migdal-El, Horem, Beth-Anath and Beth-Shemesh: nineteen towns and their villages.
39 Such was the heritage of the sons of Naphtali, by clans: the towns and their villages.
40 To the tribe of the sons of Dan, by clans, fell the seventh portion.
41 The territory of their heritage comprised: Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir-Shemesh,
42 Shaalbim, Aijalon, Silatha,
43 Elon, Timnah, Ekron,
44 Eltekeh, Gibbethon,
45 Baalath, Azor, Bene-Berak and Gath-Rimmon;
46 and, by the sea, Jerakon with the territory facing Jaffa.
47 The territory of the sons of Dan eluded them, however, and the sons of Dan consequently went up and attacked Leshem, captured it and put it to the sword. Having gained possession of it, they settled there and called Leshem, Dan, after Dan their ancestor.
48 Such was the heritage of the tribe of the sons of Dan, by clans: these towns and their villages.
49 Having finished dividing the country, frontier by frontier, the Israelites gave Joshua son of Nun a heritage among themselves;
50 at Yahweh's command, they gave him the town which he had asked for, Timnath-Serah in the highlands of Ephraim; he rebuilt the town and settled there.
51 Such are the heritages which the priest Eleazar, Joshua son of Nun, and the heads of each family apportioned by lot between the tribes of Israel at Shiloh, in Yahweh's presence, at the door of the Tent of Meeting; and thus the apportioning of the country was completed.
