1 Then, raising my eyes, I had a vision. It was this: There were four horns.
2 I said to the angel who was talking to me, 'What are these?' He said to me, 'These are the horns which scattered Judah (Israel) and Jerusalem.'
3 Yahweh then showed me four smiths.
4 And I said, 'What are these coming to do?' He said to me, '(Those horns scattered Judah so completely that no one dared to raise his head; but) these have come to terrify them, to throw down the horns of the nations who raised their horns over the land of Judah to scatter it.'
5 Then, raising my eyes, I had a vision. There was a man with a measuring line in his hand.
6 I asked him, 'Where are you going?' He said, 'To measure Jerusalem, to calculate her width and length.'
7 And then, while the angel who was talking to me walked away, another angel came out to meet him.
8 He said to him, 'Run, and tell that young man this, "Jerusalem is to remain unwalled, because of the great number of men and cattle inside.
9 For I -- Yahweh declares -- shall be a wall of fire all round her and I shall be the Glory within her." '
10 Look out! Look out! Flee from the land of the north -- Yahweh declares- for I have scattered you to the four winds of heaven -- Yahweh declares.
11 Look out! Make your escape, Zion, now living with the daughter of Babylon!
12 For Yahweh Sabaoth says this, since the Glory commissioned me, about the nations who plundered you, 'Whoever touches you touches the apple of my eye.
13 Now look, I shall wave my hand over them and they will be plundered by those whom they have enslaved.' Then you will know that Yahweh Sabaoth has sent me!
14 Sing, rejoice, daughter of Zion, for now I am coming to live among you -Yahweh declares!
15 And on that day many nations will be converted to Yahweh. Yes, they will become his people, and they will live among you. Then you will know that Yahweh Sabaoth has sent me to you!
16 Yahweh will take possession of Judah, his portion in the Holy Land, and again make Jerusalem his choice.
17 Let all people be silent before Yahweh, now that he is stirring from his holy Dwelling!
