1 Look, the Day of Yahweh is coming, when the spoils taken from you will be shared out among you.
2 For I shall gather all the nations to Jerusalem for battle. The city will be taken, the houses plundered, the women ravished. Half the city will go into exile, but the rest of the people will not be ejected from the city.
3 Then Yahweh will sally out and fight those nations as once he fought on the day of battle.
4 When that day comes, his feet will rest on the Mount of Olives, which faces Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives will be split in half from east to west, forming a huge valley; half the Mount will recede northwards, the other half southwards.
5 The valley between the hills will be filled in, yes, it will be blocked as far as Jasol, it will be filled in as it was by the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. And Yahweh my God will come, and all the holy ones with him.
6 That Day, there will be no light, but only cold and frost.
7 And it will be one continuous day -- Yahweh knows -- there will be no more day and night, and it will remain light right into the time of evening.
8 When that Day comes, living waters will issue from Jerusalem, half towards the eastern sea, half towards the western sea; they will flow summer and winter.
9 Then Yahweh will become king of the whole world. When that Day comes, Yahweh will be the one and only and his name the one name.
10 The entire country will be transformed into plain, from Geba to Rimmon in the Negeb, but Jerusalem will stand high in her place and be full of people from the Benjamin Gate to the site of the earlier gate, to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananel to the king's wine-presses.
11 People will make their homes there. The curse of destruction will be lifted; Jerusalem will be safe to live in.
12 And this is the plague with which Yahweh will strike all the nations who have fought against Jerusalem; their flesh will rot while they are still standing on their feet; their eyes will rot in their sockets; their tongues will rot in their mouths.
13 When that Day comes, a great terror will fall on them from Yahweh; each man will grab his neighbour's hand and they will fall to fighting among themselves.
14 Even Judah will fight against Jerusalem. The wealth of all the surrounding nations will be heaped together: gold, silver, clothing, in vast quantity.
15 And the plague afflicting the horses, mules, camels, donkeys and all the other animals in those armies will be the same.
16 After this, all the survivors of all the nations which have attacked Jerusalem will come up year after year to worship the King, Yahweh Sabaoth, and to keep the feast of Shelters.
17 Should one of the races of the world fail to come up to Jerusalem to worship the King, Yahweh Sabaoth, there will be no rain for that one.
18 Should the race of Egypt fail to come up and pay its visit, on it will fall the plague which Yahweh will inflict on each of those nations which fail to come up to keep the feast of Shelters.
19 Such will be the punishment for Egypt and the punishment for all the nations which fail to come up to keep the feast of Shelters.
20 When that Day comes, the very bells on the horses will be inscribed with the words, 'Sacred to Yahweh', and the cooking pots of the house of Yahweh will be as holy as the sprinkling bowls before the altar.
21 Yes, every cooking pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be sacred to Yahweh Sabaoth, and all who come to offer sacrifice will help themselves and do their cooking in them, and there will be no more traders in the Temple of Yahweh Sabaoth, when that Day comes.
