1 While they were still talking to the people the priests came up to them, accompanied by the captain of the Temple and the Sadducees.
2 They were extremely annoyed at their teaching the people the resurrection from the dead by proclaiming the resurrection of Jesus.
3 They arrested them, and, as it was already late, they kept them in prison till the next day.
4 But many of those who had listened to their message became believers; the total number of men had now risen to something like five thousand.
5 It happened that the next day the rulers, elders and scribes held a meeting in Jerusalem
6 with Annas the high priest, Caiaphas, Jonathan, Alexander and all the members of the high-priestly families.
7 They made the prisoners stand in the middle and began to interrogate them, 'By what power, and by whose name have you men done this?'
8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, addressed them, 'Rulers of the people, and elders!
9 If you are questioning us today about an act of kindness to a cripple and asking us how he was healed,
10 you must know, all of you, and the whole people of Israel, that it is by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified, and God raised from the dead, by this name and by no other that this man stands before you cured.
11 This is the stone which you, the builders, rejected but which has become the cornerstone. Only in him is there salvation;
12 for of all the names in the world given to men, this is the only one by which we can be saved.'
13 They were astonished at the fearlessness shown by Peter and John, considering that they were uneducated laymen; and they recognised them as associates of Jesus;
14 but when they saw the man who had been cured standing by their side, they could find no answer.
15 So they ordered them to stand outside while the Sanhedrin had a private discussion.
16 'What are we going to do with these men?' they asked. 'It is obvious to everybody in Jerusalem that a notable miracle has been worked through them, and we cannot deny it.
17 But to stop the whole thing spreading any further among the people, let us threaten them against ever speaking to anyone in this name again.'
18 So they called them in and gave them a warning on no account to make statements or to teach in the name of Jesus.
19 But Peter and John retorted, 'You must judge whether in God's eyes it is right to listen to you and not to God.
20 We cannot stop proclaiming what we have seen and heard.'
21 The court repeated the threats and then released them; they could not think of any way to punish them, since all the people were giving glory to God for what had happened.
22 The man who had been miraculously cured was over forty years old.
23 As soon as they were released they went to the community and told them everything the chief priests and elders had said to them.
24 When they heard it they lifted up their voice to God with one heart. 'Master,' they prayed, 'it is you who made sky and earth and sea, and everything in them;
25 it is you who said through the Holy Spirit and speaking through our ancestor David, your servant: Why this uproar among the nations, this impotent muttering of the peoples?
26 Kings on earth take up position, princes plot together against the Lord and his Anointed.
27 'This is what has come true: in this very city Herod and Pontius Pilate plotted together with the gentile nations and the peoples of Israel, against your holy servant Jesus whom you anointed,
28 to bring about the very thing that you in your strength and your wisdom had predetermined should happen.
29 And now, Lord, take note of their threats and help your servants to proclaim your message with all fearlessness,
30 by stretching out your hand to heal and to work miracles and marvels through the name of your holy servant Jesus.'
31 As they prayed, the house where they were assembled rocked. From this time they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to proclaim the word of God fearlessly.
32 The whole group of believers was united, heart and soul; no one claimed private ownership of any possessions, as everything they owned was held in common.
33 The apostles continued to testify to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus with great power, and they were all accorded great respect.
34 None of their members was ever in want, as all those who owned land or houses would sell them, and bring the money from the sale of them,
35 to present it to the apostles; it was then distributed to any who might be in need.
36 There was a Levite of Cypriot origin called Joseph whom the apostles surnamed Barnabas (which means 'son of encouragement').
37 He owned a piece of land and he sold it and brought the money and presented it to the apostles.
