CHAPTER 1.
PART I.

DISSOLUTION.

At a pawnshop in the Gray's Inn Road, Richard Frencham Altar disposed of the last of his worldly goods.  Four suits from a tailor in Saville Row, two pairs of shoes in brown and patent by a craftsman of Jermyn Street, some odds and ends of hosiery, a set of dressing table brushes with black monograms on ivory and the gold cigarette case Doreen had given him on the day of their engagement.  In consideration for which he departed with a sum of twenty-seven pounds sixteen shillings in his trousers pockets.  At his rooms in Golden Square he settled his account with the landlady, a luxury that reduced his wealth by a matter of nineteen pounds.  Of the eight pounds sixteen shillings remaining, five guineas were placed on one side for the tobacconist who had supplied him with Gold Flake and the margin transferred to another pocket for the purpose of one final engagement with the habit of high living. After that—well time would show.  It was futile to speculate upon the future.  He had the clothes he stood up in, the brain and tissue heaven had provided him with and a spirit unawed by adversity.  Many men have started life with less.

A neighbouring clock chimed the hour.  Too early to dine—besides there were things to be done first.  From a highly decorated vase that stood upon a particularly restless over-mantel, he drew a small packet of letters and untied the tape that circled them.  They were written in a careless sprawling hand, with lots of ink and little thought.  They were very full of 'darlings' and 'dearests' and 'how much do you love me's.'  They were very, very rapturous—they were very, very silly. They had made him very happy when first he read them because silliness and sincerity are often partners, but now he knew better—now they made him laugh.  Not a very cheerful laugh perhaps—a little cynical maybe but on the whole tolerant and forbearing.

He put a match to the first and lit the others in succession one by one until a charred chain of memories stretched across the tiling of the grate.  The last 'Doreen' straggled scarlet across a black and twisting page, whitened, greyed and disappeared.

"And I'll grow a beard and forget all about you," said Richard.  "And it oughtn't to be very difficult really."

He rose, crossed to the window and looked out.

"If ever I fall in love again—if ever I earn enough for the luxury of falling in love again, it won't be with——" but he changed his mind about finishing the sentence, for, after all, it is folly to speak hard words against pretty little things that make the world very jolly while they last.

Besides Doreen had her way to make like any other girl, and no one can deny the difference between the son of an exceptionally wealthy and indulgent parent and the same son after the parental wealth has exploded and the parental brain has been drilled with a .450 calibre bullet discharged at a range of two inches from the frontal bone and making a somewhat unsightly exit by way of the parietal.

James Frencham Altar, father of Richard, did not believe in failure or exposure or public obloquy.  His lode-star was success and when the forward speed of success threw out its selectors and went suddenly into reverse the liquidation of his affairs was conducted by the firm of Colt and was covered in a single report.  Thus ended an ambitious career.

Richard had suffered rather heavily under the generosity of his father whose cherished wish was that his son should be a gentleman and nothing more.  Accordingly Richard had been sent to Eton, Oxford, and round the world three times.  He had been given a racing stable, an enormous allowance and was instructed to spend as much as he could and enjoy himself all he knew how.  Being a high spirited and obliging young fellow, Richard did all these things very engagingly, and somehow contrived not to spoil himself.  He emerged from the war with a Military Cross, a row of service medals, a brace of foreign decorations and an ambition to do some work.  His father appeared to applaud the ambition but actually discouraged it with specious argument and an introduction to Doreen—who did the rest.

Doreen, of course, was a perfect darling.  She always bit her lower lip and she held her arms tight to her sides like a child who has been naughty.  There was no possible excuse to refrain from hugging Doreen. One just had to and damn the consequences.  Doreen would cry after being kissed and would continue crying until again kissed into an even frame of mind.  Lots of people kissed Doreen because they could not help themselves and she forgave them all on that account.  There never was such a darling.  Richard Frencham Altar, fresh from the wars, simply wanted to eat her and, seeing that he was a handsome young fellow with a pleasant aura of gold about him, Doreen arrayed herself in her most eatable frocks and devourable smiles and just let him.

"Oh, Dicks," she cried, soon after their engagement—'Dicks' being the name she called him, for Doreens all the world over adore plurals and attaching 'S's' to names because it makes them so snakey—"Oh, Dicks, there's only one teeny-weeny thing I wish."

"What's that?" he said.

"I wish you were as poor as poor as poor so I could just love you for nothing but yourself."

It was very pleasant hearing, but when a year later he went to her and confided that he was as 'poor as poor as poor' it transpired she had only said it for something to say and infinitely preferred young men who were as rich as rich as rich.

Discoveries like that are a little apt to revolutionise a man's ideals even if they fail to destroy them altogether.

Richard kept his views to himself.  He kissed the tearful Doreen for the last time and she waved a tiny georgette kerchief from the window as he passed down the street and out of her life.  He had not a great deal of leisure to consider the extent of his loss.  The proceedings of the coroner's court and the importunities of creditors occupied his days very fully.  The chaos of his father's affairs and the winding up of his own provided ample entertainment.  The net result was a settlement of something less than a farthing in the pound and the retirement into oblivion of one of the most able spendthrifts of the twentieth century.  He had spent a couple of months looking for work, but the name Frencham Altar, coupled with his complete inability to point to a single marketable asset other than courage and a smiling disposition, conspired together to harden the hearts of employers.  Old friends denied him interviews, business acquaintances turned him from their doors and the casual advertiser forbore replying to his enquiries.  Of course, if he had been a little less honest he might very easily have cleaned up a quiet thousand or two from the wreckage of the estate.  His solicitor had demonstrated the absurdity of Quixoticism in such affairs, but whatever other reproach might be laid to his account, Richard was no opportunist and lacked the parental liking for feathering his own nest at the expense of his fellows. Wherefore the whole of his worldly resources, if we except the courage and the smile, went into the whirlpool and were swallowed up.

Richard let the curtain fall across the window and crossed to the mantelpiece where he touched the bell.  It occurred to him that there was a certain luxury in ringing bells—it was one of many comforts of civilisation that would pass out of his reach.  No one answered the bell so he rang it again and was quite dispirited to hear footsteps ascending the stairs.  If his connection with bells was to cease it would have been pleasant to have rung it a few more times.  It is an awful thing to contemplate that you have rung a bell for the last time. One can get very sentimental over a thing like that.  Dear jolly old bells, what an influence they have upon life.  How bravely they whirr at the arrival of a dear expected—how madly they riot to the tune Wedding—how sadly they toll when the last of us is borne away.

Mrs. Walton, the landlady, came into the room and said "Yes."

"I am going now," said Richard.

"We shall be sorry to lose you."

"And I to go.  Many thanks, Mrs. Walton."

"And what is your destination, sir?"

"I have my eye on a bench facing Green Park," he replied.  "It is a favourite locality for the impecunious philosopher.  In other words I
don't know where I'm going but I have a pretty solid conviction that one of these days I shall get there.  There are two empty trunks in my bedroom which I should be glad if you would accept."

Mrs. Walton shook her head.

"You could raise a bit of money on them," she suggested.

"Maybe," said Richard, "but I don't want to.  There are only two kinds of money that are any use.  Regular money or lots of money—a little money is no good to anyone and is better spent.  By midnight tonight I
hope to find myself with none at all."

"Good gracious!" exclaimed Mrs. Walton.

"That," replied Richard, "is precisely what I am relying upon.  And I
could not wish to start on my adventures under a happier ensign. Goodbye."

And to the amazement of the lady he hissed her very soundly and clattered down the stairs.

At the tobacconist he settled the last of his small accounts, purchased a hundred cigarettes and hailed a taxi.

"The Berkeley Grill Room," he said.

They were a little surprised at the informality of his attire, but there is something in the bearing of a restaurant habitué that would procure him the best the establishment can afford even though he appeared in a bathing suit.

"Stick me in a corner somewhere," he said, "I have no evening clothes."

"Monsieur has not had time to dress."

"I repeat I have no evening clothes, on the other hand I've a deuce of a good appetite.  A brandy cocktail and the book of words, please."

They were supplied.

Richard ordered his dinner with a reckless disregard for expenditure and a nice choice of wine and dishes which earned the appreciation of those that waited upon him.  He finished with a Villa Villa and a double Napoleon and sat back with folded arms, a pleasant smile and eyes that drowsed comfortably over the agreeable quiet of the café.

It caused him something of an effort to ask for his bill, dispose of it with the last of his notes, tip the waiter and rise to his feet.  As he was approaching the swing doors that led to the little hexagonal foyer, a man at a table near by raised a pair of keen black eyes, glanced at him quickly, smiled and nodded.  The man's face was unfamiliar but Richard returned the nod casually and passed out.  The man half rose then changed his mind and sat down again.  He was a tall man with black hair threaded with white.  His face was large featured but clear cut, high cheekbones, a Roman nose, a straight, firm mouth and Wellingtonian side whiskers, his age forty or a little more.  His companion at the table put a question but the man shook his head.

"I fancy I made a mistake," he said.

Richard tipped the porter with the last coins in his pocket, a shilling and five coppers, turned slowly down Berkeley Street and crossed Piccadilly.  He passed the Ritz, of pleasant memory, and entered into the sleeping apartment of London's destitute—the single bench on the slope that faces Green Park, gratuitously provided by the generosity of the City of Westminster.

There was a constable by the cabman's shelter and him Richard addressed.

"A fine night, Bobbie," he said.

The constable agreed that this was so.  He did not resent having been addressed as 'Bobbie.'  There was no offence in it and Richard belonged to that class of individuals with whom familiarity is a cloak for courtesy.

"Taking a stroll, sir?" he asked.

Richard produced his hundred Gold Flake and bade the officer fill his helmet.

"Better help me out with a few or I shall be smoking all night," he said.

"In trouble, sir?"

"Broke," said Richard, "and I want your advice.  I've had the devil of a good dinner with the last of my fortune and I'm looking for words of wisdom.  In the first place, how about that bench?"

"The Rowton is better."

"Won't run to it."

"Not to be recommended, p'raps, but it's free to all," said the constable, nodding at the green seat which was already filling up for the night, with bundles of rags, voluminous overcoats and thin, shiny blue serges buttoned at the neck.

"I don't want to steal a march on the regular custom," observed Richard.

"It's first come hereabouts, but you'd better not leave it too late.

Anyway you'll get a shake-up when the four o'clock patrol comes on."


"How's that?"

"Always give 'em a shake-up at four o'clock.  Don't make many odds. You just get up and sit down again.  Takes the cold out of your bones if it does nothing else."

"I suppose," said Richard, "I couldn't doss down on that board that's perched on the two iron standards up towards Hyde Park Comer.  It has a single room touch that I rather fancy."

The constable shook his head.

"I couldn't let you," he said, "though there's no particular harm in it."

"Then what's it for anyway?"

"Don't rightly know.  They do say it was for the garden carriers to rest their packs on when they was coming up to market from the outlying farms.  And again I been told that they laid the corpses on it what was being carried to the plague pits when there was one of these 'ere epidemics in London.  Long while back that 'ud be."

"Hm," said Richard, "cheery sort of memory.  Well I'll take a chance with the rest.  Good night.  Oh, by the way, how's one manage about getting a wash in the mornings?"

"You goes without."

"Well, there's a damn thing," said Richard and departed with a nod.

There was an empty place on the bench but Richard hesitated long before occupying it.  Although no more than a single step it seemed a tremendous distance from the pavement to the seat.  A happy memory of a similar sensation helped him to take the plunge—it was the trembling nervousness he had felt on the first day of his commission when he stood in an agony of suspense outside the anteroom of the officers' mess and tried to summon up courage to enter.  A dark shambling figure approaching the spot decided him, and having accomplished the feat it was only to find experience repeating itself.  No one took any notice, not a sunken chin was raised.  The sleepers to right and left edged away a trifle to give him room and continued with their breathy muttering sleep.

Richard Frencham Altar lit a cigarette and buried his hands in his pockets and with the whole future before him to contemplate and with every vital problem that a man may be called upon to face, he said to himself, "Now I wonder who that johnny was who nodded to me at the Berkeley."

He was still wondering, for want of something better to do, when an hour later his friend the constable passed slowly by and looked him over critically.  An official report of his observation would have read as follows:—

Height, about five feet nine.  Age, thirty odd.  Hair, dark with a disposition to wave.  Eyes, brown, merry and set wide apart.  Well marked brows.  Nose of medium length and slightly crooked to the left. Short upper lip.  Firm mouth with an upward twist at the corners.  A
strong square chin.  A habit of holding the head slightly at an angle. Quick way of speaking and walks with a springy step.  Stands with one hand on his left hip.

"Doing all right?" asked the constable.

"Fine," said Richard.

