1 In the seventeenth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Uzziah son of Amaziah became king of Judah.
2 He was sixteen years old when he came to the throne, and he reigned for fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
3 He did what Yahweh regards as right, just as his father Amaziah had done.
4 The high places, however, were not abolished, and the people still offered sacrifices and incense on the high places.
5 But Yahweh struck the king, and he was afflicted with a virulent skin-disease till his dying day. He lived confined to his room, while Jotham the king's son, who was master of the palace, governed the country.
6 The rest of the history of Uzziah, his entire career, is this not recorded in the Book of the Annals of the Kings of Judah?
7 Then Uzziah fell asleep with his ancestors and was buried in the City of David; his son Jotham then succeeded him.
8 In the thirty-eighth year of Uzziah king of Judah, Zechariah son of Jeroboam became king of Israel in Samaria for six months.
9 He did what is displeasing to Yahweh, as his fathers had done; he did not give up the sins into which Jeroboam son of Nebat had led Israel. Shallum son of Jabesh plotted against him, murdered him at Ibleam,
10 and succeeded him.
11 The rest of the history of Zechariah is recorded in the Book of Annals of the Kings of Israel.
12 This was the word which Yahweh had spoken to Jehu, 'Your sons will sit on the throne of Israel to the fourth generation.' And so it turned out.
13 Shallum son of Jabesh became king in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah and reigned for one month in Samaria.
14 Then Menahem son of Gadi marched from Tirzah, entered Samaria, murdered Shallum son of Jabesh there and succeeded him.
15 The rest of the history of Shallum, and the plot he hatched, is recorded in the Book of the Annals of the Kings of Israel.
16 Menahem then sacked Tappuah -- killing all who were in it -- and its territory from Tirzah onwards, because it had not opened its gates to him; he sacked the town and disembowelled all the pregnant women.
17 In the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, Menahem son of Gadi became king of Israel. He reigned for ten years in Samaria.
18 He did what is displeasing to Yahweh, he did not give up the sins into which Jeroboam son of Nebat had led Israel. In his days
19 Pul king of Assyria invaded the country. Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver in return for his support in strengthening his hold on the royal power.
20 Menahem levied this sum from Israel, from all the men of rank, at the rate of fifty shekels a head, to be given to the king of Assyria, who then withdrew and did not stay in the country.
21 The rest of the history of Menahem, his entire career, is this not recorded in the Book of the Annals of the Kings of Israel?
22 Then Menahem fell asleep with his ancestors; his son Pekahiah succeeded him.
23 In the fiftieth year of Uzziah king of Judah, Pekahiah son of Menahem became king of Israel in Samaria. He reigned for two years.
24 He did what is displeasing to Yahweh; he did not give up the sins into which Jeroboam son of Nebat had led Israel.
25 Pekah son of Remaliah, his equerry, plotted against him and assassinated him in the palace keep . . . He had fifty Gileadites with him. He killed the king and succeeded him.
26 The rest of the history of Pekahiah, his entire career, is recorded in the Book of the Annals of the Kings of Israel.
27 In the fifty-second year of Uzziah king of Judah, Pekah son of Remaliah became king of Israel in Samaria. He reigned for twenty years.
28 He did what is displeasing to Yahweh; he did not give up the sins into which Jeroboam son of Nebat had led Israel.
29 In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-Pileser king of Assyria came and captured Ijon, Abel-Beth-Maacah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead and Galilee -- the whole territory of Naphtali and deported the population to Assyria.
30 Hoshea son of Elah hatched a plot against Pekah son of Remaliah; he murdered the king and succeeded him.
31 The rest of the history of Pekah, his entire career, is recorded in the Book of the Annals of the Kings of Israel.
32 In the second year of Pekah son of Remaliah, king of Israel, Jotham son of Uzziah became king of Judah.
33 He was twenty-five years old when he came to the throne, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jerusha daughter of Zadok.
34 He did what Yahweh regards as right, just as his father Uzziah had done.
35 The high places, however, were not abolished, and the people still offered sacrifices and incense on the high places. It was he who built the Upper Gate of the Temple of Yahweh.
36 The rest of the history of Jotham, his entire career, is this not recorded in the Book of the Annals of the Kings of Judah?
37 At that time Yahweh began sending Razon king of Aram and Pekah son of Remaliah against Judah.
38 Then Jotham fell asleep with his ancestors and was buried in the City of David, his ancestor; his son Ahaz succeeded him.
