1 Corinthians ⌄

1 Now about the collection for God's holy people; you are to do the same as I prescribed for the churches in Galatia.
2 On the first day of the week, each of you should put aside and reserve as much as each can spare; do not delay the collection till I arrive.
3 When I come, I will send to Jerusalem with letters of introduction those people you approve to deliver your gift;
4 if it is worth my going too, they can travel with me.
5 In any case, I shall be coming to you after I have passed through Macedonia, as I have to go through Macedonia;
6 and I may be staying some time with you, perhaps wintering, so that you can start me on my next journey, wherever I may be going.
7 I do not want to make only a passing visit to you, and I am hoping to spend quite a time with you, the Lord permitting.
8 But I shall remain at Ephesus until Pentecost,
9 for a very promising door is standing wide open to me and there are many against us.
10 If Timothy comes, make sure that he has nothing to fear from you; he is doing the Lord's work, just as I am,
11 and nobody is to underrate him. Start him off in peace on his journey to come on to me: the brothers and I are waiting for him.
12 As for our brother Apollos, I urged him earnestly to come to you with the brothers, but he was quite firm that he did not want to go yet, and he will come when he finds an opportunity.
13 Be vigilant, stay firm in the faith, be brave and strong.
14 Let everything you do be done in love.
15 There is something else I must urge you to do, brothers. You know how Stephanas' family have been the first-fruits of Achaia and have devoted themselves to the service of God's holy people;
16 I ask you in turn to put yourselves at the service of people like this and all that work with them in this arduous task.
17 I am delighted that Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus have arrived; they have made up for your not being here.
18 They have set my mind at rest, just as they did yours; you should appreciate people like them.
19 The churches of Asia send their greetings. Aquila and Prisca send their best wishes in the Lord, together with the church that meets in their house.
20 All the brothers send their greetings. Greet one another with the holy kiss.
21 This greeting is in my own hand-PAUL.
22 If there is anyone who does not love the Lord, a curse on such a one. Maran atha.
23 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
24 My love is with you all in Christ Jesus.
