1 This is the roll of Adam's descendants: On the day that God created Adam he made him in the likeness of God.
2 Male and female he created them. He blessed them and gave them the name Man, when they were created.
3 When Adam was a hundred and thirty years old he fathered a son, in his likeness, after his image, and he called him Seth.
4 Adam lived for eight hundred years after the birth of Seth and he fathered sons and daughters.
5 In all, Adam lived for nine hundred and thirty years; then he died.
6 When Seth was a hundred and five years old he fathered Enosh.
7 After the birth of Enosh, Seth lived for eight hundred and seven years, and he fathered sons and daughters.
8 In all, Seth lived for nine hundred and twelve years; then he died.
9 When Enosh was ninety years old he fathered Kenan.
10 After the birth of Kenan, Enosh lived for eight hundred and fifteen years and he fathered sons and daughters.
11 In all, Enosh lived for nine hundred and five years; then he died.
12 When Kenan was seventy years old he fathered Mahalalel.
13 After the birth of Mahalalel, Kenan lived for eight hundred and forty years and he fathered sons and daughters.
14 In all, Kenan lived for nine hundred and ten years; then he died.
15 When Mahalalel was sixty-five years old he fathered Jared.
16 After the birth of Jared, Mahalalel lived for eight hundred and thirty years and he fathered sons and daughters.
17 In all, Mahalalel lived for eight hundred and ninety-five years; then he died.
18 When Jared was a hundred and sixty-two years old he fathered Enoch.
19 After the birth of Enoch, Jared lived for eight hundred years and he fathered sons and daughters.
20 In all, Jared lived for nine hundred and sixty-two years; then he died.
21 When Enoch was sixty-five years old he fathered Methuselah.
22 Enoch walked with God. After the birth of Methuselah, Enoch lived for three hundred years and he fathered sons and daughters.
23 In all, Enoch lived for three hundred and sixty-five years.
24 Enoch walked with God, then was no more, because God took him.
25 When Methuselah was a hundred and eighty-seven years old he fathered Lamech.
26 After the birth of Lamech, Methuselah lived for seven hundred and eighty-two years and he fathered sons and daughters.
27 In all, Methuselah lived for nine hundred and sixty-nine years; then he died.
28 When Lamech was a hundred and eighty-two years old he fathered a son.
29 He gave him the name Noah because, he said, 'Here is one who will give us, in the midst of our toil and the labouring of our hands, a consolation out of the very soil that Yahweh cursed.'
30 After the birth of Noah, Lamech lived for five hundred and ninety-five years and fathered sons and daughters.
31 In all, Lamech lived for seven hundred and seventy-seven years; then he died.
32 When Noah was five hundred years old he fathered Shem, Ham and Japheth.
