1 These are the descendants of Noah's sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth, to whom sons were born after the flood:
2 Japheth's sons: Gomer, Magog, the Medes, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, Tiras.
3 Gomer's sons: Ashkenaz, Riphath, Togarmah.
4 Javan's sons: Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittim, the Dananites.
5 From these came the dispersal to the islands of the nations. These were Japheth's sons, in their respective countries, each with its own language, by clan and nation.
6 Ham's sons: Cush, Mizraim, Put, Canaan.
7 Cush's sons: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, Sabteca. Raamah's sons: Sheba, Dedan.
8 Cush fathered Nimrod who was the first potentate on earth.
9 He was a mighty hunter in the eyes of Yahweh, hence the saying, 'Like Nimrod, a mighty hunter in the eyes of Yahweh'.
10 The mainstays of his empire were Babel, Erech and Accad, all of them in the land of Shinar.
11 From this country came Asshur, and he built Nineveh, Rehoboth-Ir, Calah,
12 and Resen between Nineveh and Calah (this being the capital).
13 Mizraim fathered the people of Lud, of Anam, Lehab, Naphtuh,
14 Pathros, Casluh and Caphtor, from which the Philistines came.
15 Canaan fathered Sidon, his first-born, then Heth,
16 and the Jebusites, the Amorites, Girgashites,
17 Hivites, Arkites, Sinites,
18 Arvadites, Zemarites and Hamathites. Later, the Canaanite clans spread out.
19 The Canaanite frontier stretched from Sidon all the way to Gerar near Gaza, and all the way to Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim near Lesha.
20 These were Ham's sons, by clans and languages, by countries and nations.
21 Shem too fathered sons, being ancestor of all the sons of Eber and Japheth's elder brother.
22 Shem's sons: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, Aram.
23 Aram's sons: Uz, Hul, Gether and Mash.
24 Arpachshad fathered Shelah, and Shelah fathered Eber.
25 To Eber were born two sons: the first was called Peleg, because it was in his time that the earth was divided, and his brother was called Joktan.
26 Joktan fathered Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
27 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
28 Obal, Abima-El, Sheba,
29 Ophir, Havilah, Jobab; all these were sons of Joktan.
30 They occupied a stretch of country from Mesha all the way to Sephar, the eastern mountain range.
31 These were Shem's sons, by clans and languages, by countries and nations.
32 Such were the clans of Noah's descendants, listed by descent and nation. From them, other nations branched out on earth after the flood.
