1 These are the descendants of Esau, that is, Edom.
2 Esau chose his wives from the women of Canaan: Adah daughter of Elon the Hittite, Oholibamah daughter of Anah, son of Zibeon the Horite,
3 Basemath daughter of Ishmael and sister of Nebaioth.
4 Adah bore Eliphaz to Esau, Basemath bore Reuel,
5 Oholibamah bore Jeush, Jalam and Korah. These were the sons of Esau born to him in Canaan.
6 Esau took his wives, his sons and daughters, all the members of his household, his livestock, all his cattle and all the goods he had acquired in Canaan and left for Seir, away from his brother Jacob.
7 For they had acquired too much to live together. The land in which they were at that time could not support them both because of their livestock.
8 That is why Edom settled in the mountainous region of Seir. Esau is Edom.
9 These are the descendants of Esau, ancestor of Edom, in the mountainous region of Seir.
10 These are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz son of Esau's wife Adah, and Reuel son of Esau's wife Basemath.
11 The sons of Eliphaz were: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam and Kenaz.
12 Eliphaz son of Esau had Timna for concubine and she bore him Amalek. These were the sons of Esau's wife Adah.
13 These were the sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. These were the sons of Esau's wife Basemath.
14 And these were the sons of Esau's wife Oholibamah daughter of Anah, son of Zibeon: she bore him Jeush, Jalam and Korah.
15 These are the chieftains of Esau. The descendants of Eliphaz, Esau's eldest son: the chieftains of Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz,
16 Gatam and Amalek. These are the chieftains of Eliphaz in Edom and are descended from Adah.
17 The descendants of Esau's son Reuel: the chieftains of Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. These are the chieftains of Reuel in Edom and are descended from Esau's wife Basemath.
18 The descendants of Esau's wife Oholibamah: the chieftains of Jeush, Jalam and Korah. These are the chieftains of Esau's wife Oholibamah daughter of Anah.
19 These were the sons of Esau -- that is, Edom -- and these are their chieftains.
20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, natives of the country: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah,
21 Dishon, Ezer and Dishan; these were the Horite chieftains descended from Seir, in Edom.
22 The sons of Lotan were Hori and Hemam, and Lotan's sister was Timna.
23 These are the sons of Shobal: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam.
24 These are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah, Anah -- the Anah who found the hot springs in the desert while pasturing his father Zibeon's donkeys.
25 These are the children of Anah: Dishon, and Oholibamah daughter of Anah.
26 These are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran and Cheran.
27 These are the sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan and Akan.
28 These are the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
29 These are the Horite chieftains: the chieftains of Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah,
30 Dishon, Ezer and Dishan. These are the chieftains of the Horites, by their clans, in Seir.
31 These are the kings who reigned in Edom before an Israelite king.
32 In Edom reigned Bela son of Beor; his city was called Dinhabah.
33 Bela died and Jobab son of Zerah, from Bozrah, succeeded.
34 Jobab died and Husham from the land of the Temanites succeeded.
35 Husham died and Hadad son of Bedad succeeded; he defeated the Midianites in Moab, and his city was called Avith.
36 Hadad died and Samlah of Masrekah succeeded.
37 Samlah died and Shaul of Rehoboth-ha-Nahar succeeded.
38 Shaul died and Baal-Hanan son of Achbor succeeded.
39 Baal-Hanan died and Hadad succeeded; his city was called Pau and his wife's name was Mehetabel daughter of Matred, from Mezahab.
40 These are the names of the chieftains of Esau -- according to their clans and localities: the chieftains of Timna, Alvah, Jetheth,
41 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,
42 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
43 Magdiel and Iram. These are the chieftains of Edom, as settled in the territory which they own. Esau was Edom's ancestor.
