1 Yahweh then said to Moses, 'Now you will see what I am going to do to Pharaoh. A mighty hand will force him to let them go, a mighty hand will force him to expel them from his country.'
2 God spoke to Moses and said to him, 'I am Yahweh.
3 To Abraham, Isaac and Jacob I appeared as El Shaddai, but I did not make my name Yahweh known to them.
4 I also made my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the country in which they were living as aliens.
5 Furthermore, I have heard the groaning of the Israelites, enslaved by the Egyptians, and have remembered my covenant.
6 So say to the Israelites, "I am Yahweh. I shall free you from the forced labour of the Egyptians; I shall rescue you from their slavery and I shall redeem you with outstretched arm and mighty acts of judgement.
7 I shall take you as my people and I shall be your God. And you will know that I am Yahweh your God, who have freed you from the forced labour of the Egyptians.
8 Then I shall lead you into the country which I swore I would give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and shall give it to you as your heritage, I, Yahweh." '
9 And Moses repeated this to the Israelites, but they would not listen to Moses, so crushed was their spirit and so cruel their slavery.
10 Yahweh then said to Moses,
11 'Go to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and tell him to let the Israelites leave his country.'
12 But Moses spoke out in Yahweh's presence and said, 'The Israelites have not listened to me, so why should Pharaoh take any notice of a poor speaker like me?'
13 Yahweh spoke to Moses and Aaron and sent them to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to lead the Israelites out of Egypt.
14 These were their heads of families: The sons of Reuben, Israel's first-born: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron and Carmi: these are the clans of Reuben.
15 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul son of the Canaanite woman: these are the clans of Simeon.
16 These were the names of the sons of Levi with their descendants: Gershon, Kohath and Merari. Levi lived for a hundred and thirty-seven years.
17 The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, with their clans.
18 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. Kohath lived for a hundred and thirty-three years.
19 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the clans of Levi with their descendants.
20 Amram married Jochebed, his aunt, who bore him Aaron and Moses. Amram lived for a hundred and thirty-seven years.
21 The sons of Izhar were: Korah, Nepheg and Zichri.
22 And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael, Elzaphan and Sithri.
23 Aaron married Elisheba daughter of Amminadab and sister of Nahshon, and she bore him Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
24 The sons of Korah: Assir, Elkanah and Abiasaph. These are the clans of the Korahites.
25 Eleazar, son of Aaron, married one of Putiel's daughters who bore him Phinehas. These were the Levitical heads of families, according to clan.
26 It was to this Aaron and Moses that Yahweh said, 'Lead the Israelites out of Egypt in their armies.'
27 It was they who spoke to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to lead the Israelites out of Egypt -- namely Moses and Aaron.
28 Now the day when Yahweh spoke to Moses in Egypt,
29 Yahweh said to Moses, 'Tell Pharaoh king of Egypt everything that I am going to say to you.'
30 But Moses said to Yahweh's face, 'I am a poor speaker, so why should Pharaoh take any notice of me?'
