1 'The Dwelling itself you will make with ten sheets of finely woven linen dyed violet-purple, red-purple and crimson. You will have them embroidered with great winged creatures.
2 The length of a single sheet is to be twenty-eight cubits, its width four cubits, all the sheets to be of the same size.
3 Five of the sheets are to be joined to one another, and the other five sheets are to be joined to one another.
4 You will make violet loops along the edge of the first sheet, at the end of the set, and do the same along the edge of the last sheet in the other set.
5 You will make fifty loops on the first sheet and fifty loops along the outer edge of the sheet of the second set, the loops corresponding to one another.
6 You will also make fifty gold clasps, and join the sheets together with the clasps. In this way the Dwelling will be a unified whole.
7 'You will make sheets of goats' hair to form a tent over the Dwelling; you will make eleven of these.
8 The length of a single sheet must be thirty cubits and its width four cubits, the eleven sheets to be all of the same size.
9 You will join five sheets together into one set, and six sheets into another; the sixth you will fold double over the front of the tent.
10 You will make fifty loops along the edge of the first sheet, at the end of the first set, and fifty loops along the edge of the sheet of the second set.
11 You will make fifty bronze clasps and insert the clasps into the loops, to draw the tent together and to make it a unified whole.
12 'Of the extra part of the sheets that overlap, half is to hang down the back of the Dwelling.
13 The extra cubit on either side along the length of the tent sheets must hang down the sides of the Dwelling on either side to cover it.
14 'And for the tent you will make a cover of rams' skins dyed red and a cover of fine leather over that.
15 'For the Dwelling you will make vertical frames of acacia wood.
16 Each frame must be ten cubits long and one and a half cubits wide.
17 Each frame must have twin tenons; that is how all the frames for the Dwelling must be made.
18 You will make frames for the Dwelling: twenty frames for the south side, to the south,
19 and make forty silver sockets under the twenty frames, two sockets under one frame for its two tenons, two sockets under the next frame for its two tenons;
20 and for the other side of the Dwelling, the north side, twenty frames
21 and forty silver sockets, two sockets under one frame, two sockets under the next frame.
22 For the back of the Dwelling, on the west, you will make six frames,
23 and make two frames for the corners at the back of the Dwelling;
24 these must be coupled together at the bottom, and right up to the top, to the level of the first ring; this for the two frames that must form the two corners.
25 Thus there will be eight frames with their silver sockets: sixteen sockets; two sockets under one frame and two sockets under the next frame.
26 'You will make crossbars of acacia wood: five for the frames of the first side of the Dwelling,
27 five crossbars for the frames of the opposite side of the Dwelling, and five crossbars for the frames which form the back of the Dwelling, to the west.
28 The middle bar must join the frames from one end to the other, halfway up.
29 You will overlay the frames with gold, make gold rings for them, through which to place the crossbars, and overlay the crossbars with gold.
30 This is how you must erect the Dwelling, following the design shown you on the mountain.
31 'You will make a curtain of finely woven linen, dyed violet-purple, red-purple and crimson, and embroidered with great winged creatures,
32 and put it on four poles of acacia wood overlaid with gold, with golden hooks for them, set in four sockets of silver.
33 You will put the curtain below the clasps, so that inside behind the curtain, you can place the ark of the Testimony, and the curtain will mark the division for you between the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies.
34 You will put the mercy-seat on the ark of the Testimony in the Holy of Holies.
35 You will place the table outside the curtain, and the lamp-stand on the south side of the Dwelling, opposite the table; you will put the table on the north side.
36 For the entrance to the tent you will make a screen of finely woven linen embroidered with violet-purple, red-purple and crimson,
37 and for the screen you will make five poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, with golden hooks, and for them you will cast five sockets of bronze.'
