1 'You will make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long and five cubits wide; the altar will be square and three cubits high.
2 At its four corners you will make horns, the horns must be of a piece with it, and you will overlay it with bronze.
3 And for it you will make pans for taking away the fatty ashes, and shovels, sprinkling basins, hooks and fire pans; you will make all the altar accessories of bronze.
4 You will also make a grating for it of bronze network, and on the four corners of the grating you will make four bronze rings.
5 You will put it below the ledge of the altar, underneath, so that it comes halfway up the altar.
6 You will make shafts for the altar, shafts of acacia wood and overlay them with bronze.
7 The shafts will be passed through the rings in such a way that the shafts are on either side of the altar, for carrying it.
8 You will make the altar hollow, out of boards; you will make it as you were shown on the mountain.
9 'Then you will make the court of the Dwelling. On the south side, the curtaining of the court must be of finely woven linen, one hundred cubits long (for the first side),
10 its twenty poles and their twenty sockets being of bronze, and the poles' hooks and rods of silver.
11 So too for the north side, there must be a hundred cubits of curtaining, its twenty poles and their twenty sockets being of bronze, and the poles' hooks and rods of silver.
12 Across the width of the court, on the west side, there must be fifty cubits of curtaining, with its ten poles and their ten sockets.
13 The width of the court on the east side, facing the sunrise, must be fifty cubits,
14 with fifteen cubits of curtaining on one side of the entrance, with its three poles and their three sockets,
15 and on the other side of the entrance, fifteen cubits of curtaining, with its three poles and their three sockets;
16 and for the gateway to the court there must be a twenty-cubit screen of finely woven linen embroidered with violet-purple, red-purple and crimson, with its four poles and their four sockets.
17 All the poles round the court must be connected by silver rods; their hooks must be of silver and their sockets of bronze.
18 The length of the court must be one hundred cubits, its width fifty cubits and its height five cubits. All the curtaining must be made of finely woven linen, and their sockets of bronze.
19 All the accessories for general use in the Dwelling, all its pegs and all the pegs of the court, must be of bronze.
20 'You will order the Israelites to bring you pure pounded olive oil for the light, and to keep a lamp burning all the time.
21 Aaron and his sons will tend it in the Tent of Meeting, outside the curtain hanging in front of the Testimony, from dusk to dawn, before Yahweh. This is a perpetual decree for all generations of Israelites.'
