1 Yahweh then spoke to Moses and said,
2 'Look, I have singled out Bezalel son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah,
3 and have filled him with the spirit of God in wisdom, knowledge and skill in every kind of craft:
4 in designing and carrying out work in gold and silver and bronze,
5 in cutting stones to be set, in wood carving and in executing every kind of work.
6 And to help him I have given him Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, and have endowed the hearts of all the skilled men with the skill to make everything I have ordered you:
7 the Tent of Meeting; the ark of the Testimony; the mercy-seat above it; and all the furniture of the tent;
8 the table and all its accessories; the pure lamp-stand and all its equipment; the altar of incense;
9 the altar of burnt offerings and all its accessories; the basin and its stand;
10 the liturgical vestments, the sacred vestments for Aaron the priest, and the vestments for his sons, for their priestly functions;
11 the anointing oil and the fragrant incense for the sanctuary. They will do everything as I have ordered you.'
12 Yahweh then said to Moses,
13 'Speak to the Israelites and say, "You will keep my Sabbaths properly, for this is a sign between myself and you for all your generations to come, so that you will know that it is I, Yahweh, who sanctify you.
14 You will keep the Sabbath, then; you will regard it as holy. Anyone who profanes it will be put to death; anyone who does any work on that day will be outlawed from his people.
15 Work must be done for six days, but the seventh day will be a day of complete rest, consecrated to Yahweh. Anyone who works on the Sabbath day will be put to death.
16 The Israelites will keep the Sabbath, observing the Sabbath for all their generations to come: this is an eternal covenant.
17 Between myself and the Israelites, this is a sign for ever, for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, but on the seventh day he rested and drew breath."
18 When he had finished speaking to Moses on Mount Sinai, he gave him the two tablets of the Testimony, tablets of stone inscribed by the finger of God.
