1 He made the altar of burnt offerings of acacia wood, five cubits long and five cubits wide; it was square and three cubits high.
2 At its four corners he made horns, the horns being of a piece with it, and overlaid it with bronze.
3 He made all the altar accessories: the ash pans, shovels, sprinkling basins, hooks and fire pans; he made all the altar accessories of bronze.
4 He also made a grating for the altar of bronze network, below its ledge, underneath, coming halfway up.
5 He cast four rings for the four corners of the bronze grating to take the shafts.
6 He made the shafts of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze.
7 He passed the shafts through the rings on the sides of the altar for carrying it. He made the altar hollow, out of boards.
8 He made the bronze basin and its bronze stand from the mirrors of the women who served at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting.
9 He made the court. On the south side, on the south, the curtaining of the court was of finely woven linen a hundred cubits long.
10 Its twenty poles and their sockets being of bronze, and their hooks and rods of silver;
11 and on the north side, a hundred cubits of curtaining, its twenty poles and their twenty sockets being of bronze, and their hooks and rods of silver.
12 On the west side there were fifty cubits of curtaining, with its ten poles and their ten sockets, the poles' hooks and rods being of silver;
13 and on the east side on the east, there were fifty cubits.
14 On the one side there were fifteen cubits of curtaining, with its three poles and their three sockets,
15 and on the other side -- either side of the gateway to the court -- there were fifteen cubits of curtaining with its three poles and their three sockets.
16 All the curtaining round the court was of finely woven linen,
17 the sockets for the poles were of bronze, the poles' hooks and rods of silver, their capitals were overlaid with silver and all the poles of the court had silver rods.
18 The screen for the gateway to the court was of finely woven linen embroidered with violet-purple, red-purple and crimson, twenty cubits long and five cubits high (all the way along) like the curtaining of the court,
19 its four poles and their four sockets being of bronze, their hooks of silver, their capitals overlaid with silver, and their rods of silver.
20 All the pegs round the Dwelling and the court were of bronze.
21 These are the accounts for the Dwelling -- the Dwelling of the Testimony -- drawn up by order of Moses, the work of Levites, produced by Ithamar son of Aaron, the priest.
22 Bezalel son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made everything that Yahweh ordered Moses to make,
23 his assistant being Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, embroiderer and needleworker in violet-purple, red-purple and crimson materials and fine linen.
24 The amount of gold used for the work, for the entire work for the sanctuary (the gold consecrated for the purpose) was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred and thirty shekels, reckoned by the sanctuary shekel.
25 The silver from the census of the community was one hundred talents and one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels, reckoned by the sanctuary shekel,
26 one beqa per head, half a shekel reckoned by the sanctuary shekel, for everyone of twenty years and over included in the census, for six hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty persons.
27 A hundred talents of silver were used for casting the sockets for the sanctuary and the sockets for the curtain: a hundred sockets from a hundred talents, one talent per socket.
28 From the one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels he made the hooks for the poles, overlaid their capitals and made the rods for them.
29 The bronze consecrated for the purpose amounted to seventy talents and two thousand four hundred shekels,
30 and from it he made the sockets for the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, the bronze altar, its bronze grating and all the altar accessories,
31 the sockets all round the court, the sockets for the gateway to the court, all the pegs for the Dwelling and all the pegs round the court.
