1 The proverbs of Solomon. A wise child is a father's joy, a foolish child a mother's grief.
2 Treasures wickedly come by give no benefit, but uprightness brings delivery from death.
3 Yahweh does not let the upright go hungry, but he thwarts the greed of the wicked.
4 A slack hand brings poverty, but the hand of the diligent brings wealth.
5 Reaping at harvest-time is the mark of the prudent, sleeping at harvest-time is the sign of the worthless.
6 Blessings are on the head of the upright, but the mouth of the godless is a cover for violence.
7 The upright is remembered with blessings, the name of the wicked rots away.
8 The wise of heart takes orders, but a gabbling fool heads for ruin.
9 Anyone whose ways are honourable walks secure, but whoever follows crooked ways is soon unmasked.
10 A wink of the eye brings trouble, a bold rebuke brings peace.
11 The mouth of the upright is a life-giving fountain, but the mouth of the godless is a cover for violence.
12 Hatred provokes disputes, but love excuses all offences.
13 On the lips of the discerning is found wisdom, on the back of a fool, the stick.
14 Wise people store up knowledge, but the mouth of a fool makes ruin imminent.
15 The wealth of the rich is their stronghold, poverty is the undoing of the weak.
16 The wage of the upright affords life, but sin is all the wicked earns.
17 Whoever abides by discipline, walks towards life, whoever ignores correction goes astray.
18 Liars' lips are a cover for hatred, whoever utters slander is a fool.
19 A flood of words is never without fault; whoever controls the lips is wise.
20 The tongue of the upright is purest silver, the heart of the wicked is of trumpery value.
21 The lips of the upright nourish many peoples, but fools die for want of sense.
22 The blessing of Yahweh is what brings riches, to this, hard toil has nothing to add.
23 A fool takes pleasure in doing wrong, the intelligent in cultivating wisdom.
24 What the wicked fears overtakes him, what the upright desires comes to him as a present.
25 When the storm is over, the wicked is no more, but the upright stands firm for ever.
26 As vinegar to the teeth, smoke to the eyes, so the sluggard to the one who sends him.
27 The fear of Yahweh adds length to life, the years of the wicked will be cut short.
28 The hope of the upright is joy, the expectations of the wicked come to nothing.
29 The way of Yahweh is a rampart for the honest, for evil-doers nothing but ruin.
30 The upright will never have to give way, but the land will offer no home for the wicked.
31 The mouth of the upright utters wisdom, the tongue that deceives will be cut off.
32 The lips of the upright know about kindness, the mouth of the wicked about deceit.
