1 Whoever loves discipline, loves knowledge, stupid are those who hate correction.
2 The honest obtains Yahweh's favour, the schemer incurs his condemnation.
3 No one is made secure by wickedness, but nothing shakes the roots of the upright.
4 A capable wife, her husband's crown, a shameless wife, a cancer in his bones.
5 The plans of the upright are honest, the intrigues of the wicked are full of deceit.
6 The words of the wicked are snares to shed blood, what the honest say keeps them safe.
7 Once thrown down, the wicked are no more, but the house of the upright stands firm.
8 Prudence wins praise, but a tortuous heart incurs only contempt.
9 Better a common fellow who has a slave than someone who gives himself airs and has nothing to eat.
10 The upright has compassion on his animals, but the heart of the wicked is ruthless.
11 Whoever works his land shall have bread and to spare, but no one who chases fantasies has any sense.
12 The godless delights in the snare of the wicked, but the root of the upright bears fruit.
13 In the sin of the lips lies a disastrous trap, but the upright finds a way out of misfortune.
14 Abundance of good things is the fruit of the lips; labour brings its own return.
15 Fools think the way they go is straight, the wise listens to advice.
16 The fool shows anger straightaway, the discreet conceals dislike.
17 To tell the truth is to further justice, a false witness is nothing but deceit.
18 Thoughtless words can wound like a sword, but the tongue of the wise brings healing.
19 Sincere lips endure for ever, the lying tongue lasts only a moment.
20 Deceit is in the heart of the schemer, joy with those who give counsels of peace.
21 No harm can come to the upright, but the wicked are swamped by misfortunes.
22 Lying lips are abhorrent to Yahweh; dear to him those who make truth their way of life.
23 The discreet keeps knowledge hidden, the heart of fools proclaims their folly.
24 For the diligent hand, authority; for the slack hand, forced labour.
25 Worry makes a heart heavy, a kindly word makes it glad.
26 The upright shows the way to a friend; the way of the wicked leads them astray.
27 The idle has no game to roast; diligence is anyone's most precious possession.
28 In the way of uprightness is life, the ways of the vengeful lead to death.
