1 A wise child listens to a father's discipline, a cynic will not listen to reproof.
2 The fruit of the mouth provides a good meal, but the soul of the treacherous feeds on violence.
3 A guard on the mouth makes life secure, whoever talks too much is lost.
4 The idler hungers but has no food; hard workers get their fill.
5 The upright hates a lying word, but the wicked slanders and defames.
6 Uprightness stands guard over one whose way is honest, sin causes the ruin of the wicked.
7 There are some who, on nothing, pretend to be rich, some, with great wealth, pretend to be poor.
8 The ransom for life is a person's wealth; but the poor will not hear the reproof.
9 The light of the upright is joyful, the lamp of the wicked goes out.
10 Insolence breeds only disputes, wisdom lies with those who take advice.
11 A sudden fortune will dwindle away, accumulation little by little is the way to riches.
12 Hope deferred makes the heart sick, desire fulfilled is a tree of life.
13 Contempt for the word is self-destructive, respect for the commandment wins salvation.
14 The teaching of the wise is a life-giving fountain for eluding the snares of death.
15 Good sense wins favour, but the way of the treacherous is hard.
16 Anyone of discretion acts by the light of knowledge, the fool parades his folly.
17 A bad messenger falls into misfortune, a trusty messenger brings healing.
18 Whoever rejects discipline wins poverty and scorn; for anyone who accepts correction: honour.
19 Desire fulfilled is sweet to the soul; fools are loth to turn -- from evil.
20 Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, whoever mixes with fools will be ruined.
21 Evil will pursue the sinner, but good will reward the upright.
22 The good bequeaths a heritage to children's children, the wealth of the sinner is stored away for the upright.
23 Though the farms of the poor yield much food, some perish for lack of justice.
24 Whoever fails to use the stick hates his child; whoever is free with correction loves him.
25 The upright eats to the full, the belly of the wicked goes empty.
