1 Wisdom builds herself a house; with her own hands Folly pulls it down.
2 Whoever keeps to an honest course fears Yahweh, whoever deserts his paths shows contempt for him.
3 Pride sprouts in the mouth of the fool, the lips of the wise keep them safe.
4 No oxen, empty manger; strong bull, much cash.
5 The truthful witness tells no lies, the false witness lies with every breath.
6 In vain the mocker looks for wisdom, knowledge comes easy to the intelligent.
7 Keep well clear of the fool, you will not find wise lips there.
8 With people of discretion, wisdom keeps a watch over their conduct, but the folly of fools leads them astray.
9 Fools mock at the sacrifice for sin, but favour resides among the honest.
10 The heart knows its own grief best, nor can a stranger share its joy.
11 The house of the wicked will be destroyed, the tent of the honest will prosper.
12 There are ways that some think straight, but they lead in the end to death.
13 Even in laughter the heart finds sadness, and joy makes way for sorrow.
14 The miscreant will reap the reward of his conduct, and the good the reward of his deeds.
15 The simpleton believes any message, a person of discretion treads a careful path.
16 The wise fears evil and avoids it, the fool is insolent and conceited.
17 A quick-tempered person commits rash acts, but a schemer is detestable.
18 Simpletons have folly for their portion, people of discretion knowledge for their crown.
19 The evil bow down before the good, the wicked, at the gates of the upright.
20 The poor is detestable even to a friend, but many are they who love someone rich.
21 One who despises the needy is at fault, one who takes pity on the poor is blessed.
22 Plan evil -- isn't this to go astray? Those who plan for good can earn faithful love and constancy.
23 Hard work always yields its profit, idle talk brings only want.
24 The crown of the wise is their riches; the folly of fools is folly.
25 A truthful witness saves lives, whoever utters lies is a deceiver.
26 In the fear of Yahweh is powerful security; for his children he is a refuge.
27 The fear of Yahweh is a life-giving spring for eluding the snares of death.
28 Large population, monarch's glory; dwindling population, ruler's ruin.
29 Mastery of temper is high proof of intelligence, a quick temper makes folly worse than ever.
30 The life of the body is a tranquil heart, but envy is a cancer in the bones.
31 To oppress the weak insults the Creator, kindness to the needy honours the Creator.
32 For evil-doing, the wicked will be flung headlong, but in integrity the upright will find refuge.
33 Wisdom resides in an understanding heart; she is not to be found in the hearts of fools.
34 Uprightness makes a nation great, by sin whole races are disgraced.
35 A king shows favour to a wise minister, but anger to one who shames him.
