1 A human heart makes the plans, Yahweh gives the answer.
2 A person's own acts seem right to the doer, but Yahweh is the weigher of souls.
3 Commend what you do to Yahweh, and what you plan will be achieved.
4 Yahweh made everything for its own purpose, yes, even the wicked for the day of disaster.
5 Every arrogant heart is abhorrent to Yahweh: be sure this will not go unpunished.
6 By faithful love and constancy sin is expiated; by fear of Yahweh evil is avoided.
7 Let Yahweh be pleased with someone's way of life and he makes that person's very enemies into friends.
8 Better have little and with it uprightness than great revenues with injustice.
9 The human heart may plan a course, but it is Yahweh who makes the steps secure.
10 The lips of the king utter prophecies, he keeps faith when he speaks in judgement.
11 The balances and scales belong to Yahweh, all the weights in the bag are of his making.
12 Evil-doing is abhorrent to kings, since uprightness is a throne's foundation.
13 Upright lips are welcome to a king, he loves someone of honest words.
14 The king's wrath is the herald of death, but the wise will appease it.
15 When the king's face brightens it spells life, his favour is like the rain in spring.
16 Better gain wisdom than gold, choose understanding in preference to silver.
17 To turn from evil is the way of the honest; whoever watches the path keeps life safe.
18 Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall.
19 Better be humble with the poor than share the booty with the proud.
20 Whoever listens closely to the word finds happiness; whoever trusts Yahweh is blessed.
21 The wise of heart is acclaimed as intelligent, sweetness of speech increases knowledge.
22 Shrewdness is a fountain of life for its possessor, the folly of fools is their own punishment.
23 The heart of the wise lends shrewdness to speech and makes words more persuasive.
24 Kindly words are a honeycomb, sweet to the taste, wholesome to the body.
25 There is a way that some think straight, but it leads in the end to death.
26 A worker's appetite works on his behalf, for his hunger urges him on.
27 A worthless person concocts evil, such a one's talk is like a scorching fire.
28 A troublemaker sows strife, a slanderer divides friend from friend.
29 The violent lures his neighbour astray and leads him by a way that is not good.
30 Whoever narrows the eyes to think up tricks and purses the lips has already done wrong.
31 White hairs are a crown of honour, they are found in the ways of uprightness.
32 Better an equable person than a hero, someone with self-mastery than one who takes a city.
33 In the fold of the garment the lot is thrown, but from Yahweh comes the decision.
