1 Whoever lives alone follows private whims, and is angered by advice of any kind.
2 A fool takes no pleasure in understanding but only in airing an opinion.
3 When wickedness comes, indignity comes too, and, with contempt, dishonour.
4 Deep waters, such are human words: a gushing stream, the utterance of wisdom.
5 It is not good to show partiality for the wicked and so to deprive the upright when giving judgement.
6 The lips of a fool go to the law-courts with a mouth that pleads for a beating.
7 The mouth of the fool works its owner's ruin, the lips of a fool are a snare for their owner's life.
8 The words of a slanderer are tasty morsels that go right down into the belly.
9 Whoever is idle at work is blood-brother to the destroyer.
10 The name of Yahweh is a strong tower; the upright runs to it and is secure.
11 The wealth of the rich forms a stronghold, a high wall, as the rich supposes.
12 The human heart is haughty until destruction comes, before there can be glory there must be humility.
13 To retort without first listening is both foolish and embarrassing.
14 Sickness the human spirit can endure, but when the spirit is broken, who can bear this?
15 The heart of the intelligent acquires learning, the ears of the wise search for knowledge.
16 A present will open all doors and win access to the great.
17 The first to plead is adjudged to be upright, until the next comes and cross-examines him.
18 The lot puts an end to disputes and decides between men of power.
19 A brother offended is worse than a fortified city, and quarrels are like the locks of a keep.
20 From the fruit of the mouth is a stomach filled, it is the yield of the lips that gives contentment.
21 Death and life are in the gift of the tongue, those who indulge it must eat the fruit it yields.
22 He who finds a wife finds happiness, receiving a mark of favour from Yahweh.
23 The language of the poor is entreaty, the answer of the rich harshness.
24 There are friends who point the way to ruin, others are closer than a brother.
