1 Better the poor living an honest life than the adept at double-talk who is a fool.
2 Where knowledge is wanting, zeal is not good; whoever goes too quickly stumbles.
3 Folly leads conduct astray, yet it is against Yahweh that the heart rages.
4 Wealth multiplies friends, but the one friend the poor has is taken away.
5 The false witness will not go unpunished, no one who utters lies will go free.
6 The nobleman has many to court his favour, to a giver of gifts, everyone is friend.
7 The poor man's brothers hate him, every one; his friends -- how much the more do these desert him! He goes in search of words, but there are none to be had.
8 Whoever acquires sense wins profit from it, whoever treasures understanding finds happiness.
9 The false witness will not go unpunished, whoever utters lies will be destroyed.
10 It is not fitting for a fool to live in luxury, still less for a slave to govern princes.
11 Good sense makes for self-control, and for pride in overlooking an offence.
12 Like the roaring of a lion, the anger of a king, but like dew on the grass his favour.
13 A foolish child is a disaster for the father, the bickerings of a wife are like an ever-dripping gutter.
14 From fathers comes inheritance of house and wealth, from Yahweh a wife who is discreet.
15 Idleness lulls to sleep, the feckless soul will go hungry.
16 Keeping the commandment is self-preservation, but whoever despises these ways will die.
17 Whoever is kind to the poor is lending to Yahweh who will repay him the kindness done.
18 While there is hope for him, chastise your child, but do not get so angry as to kill him.
19 The violent lays himself open to a penalty; spare him, and you aggravate his crime.
20 Listen to advice, accept correction, to be the wiser in the time to come.
21 Many are the plans in the human heart, but the purpose of Yahweh -- that stands firm.
22 Faithful love is what people look for in a person; they prefer the poor to a liar.
23 The fear of Yahweh leads to life, it brings food and shelter, without fear of evil.
24 Into the dish the idler dips his hand, but bring it back to his mouth he cannot.
25 Strike a cynic, and simpletons will be more wary; reprove the intelligent and he will understand your meaning.
26 He who ill-treats his father and drives out his mother is a child both worthless and depraved.
27 Give up listening to instruction, my child, if you mean to stray from words of knowledge.
28 A perjured witness holds the law in scorn; the mouth of the wicked feasts on evil-doing.
29 Punishments were made for mockers, and beating for the backs of fools.
