1 Wine is reckless, liquor rowdy; unwise is anyone whom it seduces.
2 Like the roaring of a lion is the fury of a king; whoever provokes him sins against himself.
3 It is praiseworthy to stop short of a law-suit; only a fool flies into a rage.
4 In autumn the idler does not plough, at harvest time he looks -- nothing there!
5 The resources of the human heart are like deep waters: an understanding person has only to draw on them.
6 Many describe themselves as people of faithful love, but who can find someone really to be trusted?
7 The upright whose ways are blameless -- blessed the children who come after!
8 A king enthroned on the judgement seat with one look scatters all that is evil.
9 Who can say, 'I have cleansed my heart, I am purified of my sin'?
10 One weight here, another there; here one measure, there another: both alike are abhorrent to Yahweh.
11 A young man's character appears in what he does, if his behaviour is pure and straight.
12 Ear that hears, eye that sees, Yahweh has made both of these.
13 Do not love sleep or you will know poverty; keep your eyes open and have your fill of food.
14 'No good, no good!' says the buyer, but he goes off congratulating himself.
15 There are gold and jewels of every type, but a priceless ornament is speech informed by knowledge.
16 Take the man's clothes! He has gone surety for a stranger. Take a pledge from him to the profit of persons unknown!
17 Bread is sweet when it is got by fraud, but later the mouth is full of grit.
18 Plans are matured by consultation; take wise advice when waging war.
19 The bearer of gossip lets out secrets; do not mingle with chatterers.
20 Whoever curses father or mother will have his lamp put out in the deepest darkness.
21 Property quickly come by at first will not be blessed in the end.
22 Do not say, 'I shall repay evil'; put your hope in Yahweh and he will keep you safe.
23 One weight here, another there: this is abhorrent to Yahweh, false scales are not good.
24 Yahweh guides the steps of the powerful: but who can comprehend human ways?
25 Anyone is trapped who cries 'Dedicated!' and begins to reflect only after the vow.
26 A wise king winnows the wicked and makes the wheel pass over them.
27 The human spirit is the lamp of Yahweh -- searching the deepest self.
28 Faithful love and loyalty mount guard over the king, his throne is founded on saving justice.
29 The pride of the young is their strength, the ornament of the old, grey hairs.
30 Wounding strokes are good medicine for evil, blows have an effect on the inmost self.
