1 Like flowing water is a king's heart in Yahweh's hand; he directs it wherever he pleases.
2 All actions are straight in the doer's own eyes, but it is Yahweh who weighs hearts.
3 To do what is upright and just is more pleasing to Yahweh than sacrifice.
4 Haughty eye, proud heart, lamp of the wicked, nothing but sin.
5 The hardworking is thoughtful, and all is gain; too much haste, and all that comes of it is want.
6 To make a fortune with the help of a lying tongue: such is the idle fantasy of those who look for death.
7 The violence of the wicked proves their ruin, for they refuse to do what is right.
8 The way of the felon is devious, the conduct of the innocent straight.
9 Better the corner of a roof to live on than a house shared with a quarrelsome woman.
10 The soul of the wicked is intent on evil, to such a person no neighbour can ever do right.
11 When a cynic is punished, simpletons grow wiser, but someone of understanding acquires knowledge by instruction.
12 The Upright One watches the house of the wicked; he hurls the wicked to destruction.
13 Whoever refuses to listen to the cry of the weak, will in turn plead and not be heard.
14 Anger is mollified by a covert gift, raging fury by a present under cover of the cloak.
15 Doing what is right fills the upright with joy, but evil-doers with terror.
16 Whoever strays far from the way of prudence will rest in the assembly of shadows.
17 Pleasure-lovers stay poor, no one will grow rich who loves wine and good living.
18 The wicked is a ransom for the upright; and the law-breaker for the honest.
19 Better to live in a desert land than with a quarrelsome and irritable woman.
20 The wise has valuables and oil at home, but a fool soon runs through both.
21 Whoever pursues uprightness and faithful love will find life, uprightness and honour.
22 A sage can scale a garrisoned city and shatter the rampart on which it relied.
23 Watch kept over mouth and tongue keeps the watcher safe from disaster.
24 Insolent, haughty -- the name is 'Cynic'; overweening pride marks such behaviour.
25 The idler's desires are the death of him, since his hands will do no work.
26 All day long the godless is racked by desire, the upright gives without ever refusing.
27 The sacrifice of the wicked is abhorrent, above all if it is offered for bad motives.
28 The false witness will perish, but no one who knows how to listen will ever be silenced.
29 The wicked man's strength shows on his face, but the honest it is whose steps are firm.
30 No wisdom, no understanding, no advice is worth anything before Yahweh.
31 Fit out the cavalry for the day of battle, but the victory is Yahweh's.
