1 Here are some more of Solomon's proverbs, transcribed at the court of Hezekiah king of Judah:
2 To conceal a matter, this is the glory of God, to sift it thoroughly, the glory of kings.
3 The heavens for height and the earth for depth, unfathomable, as are the hearts of kings.
4 From silver remove the dross and it emerges wholly purified;
5 from the king's presence remove the wicked and on uprightness his throne is founded.
6 In the presence of the king do not give yourself airs, do not take a place among the great;
7 better to be invited, 'Come up here', than be humiliated in the presence of the prince.
8 What your eyes have witnessed do not produce too quickly at the trial, for what are you to do at the end should your neighbour confute you?
9 Have the quarrel out with your neighbour. but do not disclose another's secret,
10 for fear your listener put you to shame, and the loss of repute be irremediable.
11 Like apples of gold inlaid with silver is a word that is aptly spoken.
12 A golden ring, an ornament of finest gold, is a wise rebuke to an attentive ear.
13 The coolness of snow in harvest time, such is a trustworthy messenger to those who send him: he revives the soul of his master.
14 Clouds and wind, but no rain: such is anyone whose promises are princely but never kept.
15 With patience a judge may be cajoled: a soft tongue breaks bones.
16 Eat to your satisfaction what honey you may find, but not to excess or you will bring it up again.
17 Do not set foot too often in your neighbour's house, for fear the neighbour tire of you and come to hate you.
18 A mace, a sword, a piercing arrow, such is anyone who bears false witness against a companion.
19 Decaying tooth, lame foot, such is the fickle when trusted in time of trouble:
20 as well take off your coat in bitter weather. You are pouring vinegar on a wound when you sing songs to a sorrowing heart.
21 If your enemy is hungry, give him something to eat; if thirsty, something to drink.
22 By this you will be heaping red-hot coals on his head, and Yahweh will reward you.
23 The north wind begets the rain, and a backbiting tongue, black looks.
24 Better the corner of a roof to live on than a house shared with a quarrelsome woman.
25 Cold water to a thirsty throat; such is good news from a distant land.
26 A churned -- up spring, a fountain fouled; such is the upright person trembling before the wicked.
27 It is not good to eat too much honey, nor to seek for glory on top of glory.
28 An open town, and without defences: such is anyone who lacks self-control.
