1 Snow no more befits the summer, nor rain the harvest-time, than honours befit a fool.
2 As the sparrow escapes, and the swallow flies away, so the undeserved curse will never hit its mark.
3 A whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and for the backs of fools, a stick.
4 Do not answer a fool in the terms of his folly for fear you grow like him yourself.
5 Answer a fool in the terms of his folly for fear he imagine himself wise.
6 He wounds himself, he takes violence for his drink, who sends a message by a fool.
7 Unreliable as the legs of the lame, so is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
8 As well tie the stone to the sling as pay honour to a fool.
9 A thorn branch in a drunkard's hand, such is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
10 An archer wounding everyone, such is he who hires the passing fool and drunkard.
11 As a dog returns to its vomit, so a fool reverts to his folly.
12 You see someone who thinks himself wise? More to be hoped for from a fool than from him!
13 'A wild beast on the road!' says the idler, 'a lion in the streets!'
14 The door turns on its hinges, the idler on his bed.
15 Into the dish the idler dips his hand, but is too tired to bring it back to his mouth.
16 The idler thinks himself wiser than seven people who answer with discretion.
17 He takes a stray dog by the ears, who meddles in someone else's quarrel.
18 Like a madman hurling firebrands, arrows and death,
19 so is anyone who lies to a companion and then says, 'Aren't I amusing?'
20 No wood, and the fire goes out; no slanderer, and quarrelling dies down.
21 Charcoal for live embers, wood for fire, and the quarrelsome for kindling strife.
22 The words of a slanderer are tasty morsels that go right down into the belly.
23 Base silver-plate on top of clay: such are fervent lips and a wicked heart.
24 Whoever hates may hide it in speech, but deep within lies treachery;
25 do not trust such a person's pretty speeches, since in the heart lurk seven abominations.
26 Hatred may disguise itself with guile, to reveal its wickedness later in the assembly.
27 Whoever digs a pit falls into it, the stone comes back on him that rolls it.
28 The lying tongue hates its victims, the wheedling mouth causes ruin.
