1 The wicked flees when no one is pursuing, the upright is bold as a lion.
2 A country in revolt throws up many leaders: with one person wise and experienced, you have stability.
3 The wicked oppresses the weak: here is a devastating rain -- and farewell, bread!
4 Those who forsake the law sing the praises of the wicked, those who observe the law are angered by them.
5 The wicked do not know what justice means, those who seek Yahweh understand everything.
6 Better someone poor living an honest life than someone of devious ways however rich.
7 An intelligent child is one who keeps the Law; an associate of profligates brings shame on his father.
8 Whoever increases wealth by usury and interest amasses it for someone else who will bestow it on the poor.
9 Whoever refuses to listen to the Law, such a one's very prayer is an abomination.
10 Whoever seduces the honest to evil ways will fall into his own pit. The blameless are the heirs to happiness.
11 The rich may think himself wise, but the intelligent poor will unmask him.
12 When the upright triumph, there is great exultation: when the wicked are in the ascendant, people take cover.
13 No one who conceals his sins will prosper, whoever confesses and renounces them will find mercy.
14 Blessed the person who is never without fear, whoever hardens his heart will fall into distress.
15 Like a roaring lion or a springing bear is a wicked ruler of a powerless people.
16 An unenlightened ruler is rich in rapacity, one who hates greed will lengthen his days.
17 A man guilty of murder will flee till he reaches his tomb: let no one halt him!
18 Whoever lives an honest life will be safe, whoever wavers between two ways falls down in one of them.
19 Whoever works his land shall have bread and to spare, but no one who chases fantasies has any sense.
20 A trustworthy person will be overwhelmed with blessings, but no one who tries to get rich quickly will go unpunished.
21 It is not good to show partiality, but people will do wrong for a mouthful of bread.
22 The person of greedy eye chases after wealth, not knowing that want will be the result.
23 Anyone who reproves another will enjoy more favour in the end than the flatterer.
24 Whoever robs father and mother saying, 'Nothing wrong in that!' is comrade for a brigand.
25 The covetous provokes disputes, whoever trusts in Yahweh will prosper.
26 Whoever trusts his own wit is a fool, anyone whose ways are wise will be safe.
27 No one who gives to the poor will ever go short, but whoever closes his eyes will have curses in plenty.
28 When the wicked are in the ascendant, people take cover, but when they perish, the upright multiply.
