1 Whoever is stiff-necked under reproof will be suddenly and irremediably broken.
2 When the upright are on the increase, the people rejoice; when the wicked are in power, the people groan.
3 The lover of Wisdom makes his father glad, but the patron of prostitutes fritters his wealth away.
4 A king gives a country stability by justice, an extortioner brings it to ruin.
5 Whoever flatters his companion spreads a net for his feet.
6 In the sin of the wicked lies a snare, but the upright exults and rejoices.
7 The upright understands the cause of the weak, the wicked has not the wit to understand it.
8 Scoffers set a city in ferment, but the wise moderate anger.
9 Let someone wise argue with a fool, anger and good humour alike will be wasted.
10 The bloodthirsty hate the honest, but the upright seek them out.
11 The fool blurts out every angry feeling, but the wise subdues and restrains them.
12 When a ruler listens to false reports, all his ministers will be scoundrels.
13 Poor and oppressor are found together, Yahweh gives light to the eyes of both.
14 The king who judges the weak with equity sees his throne set firm for ever.
15 The stick and the reprimand bestow wisdom, a young man left to himself brings shame on his mother.
16 When the wicked are on the increase, sin multiplies, but the upright will witness their downfall.
17 Correct your child, and he will give you peace of mind; he will delight your soul.
18 Where there is no vision the people get out of hand; happy are they who keep the law.
19 Not by words is a slave corrected: even if he understands, he will take no notice.
20 You see someone too ready of speech? There is more to be hoped for from a fool!
21 If a slave is pampered from childhood, he will prove ungrateful in the end.
22 The hot-head provokes disputes, someone in a rage commits all sorts of sins.
23 Pride brings humiliation, whoever humbles himself will win honour.
24 To hear the curse and disclose nothing is to share with the thief and to hate oneself.
25 To be afraid of human beings is a snare, whoever trusts in Yahweh is secure.
26 Many people seek a ruler's favour, but the rights of each come from Yahweh.
27 Abhorrent to the upright is the sinful, abhorrent to the wicked is one whose way is straight.
