1 Make your appeal then. Will you find an answer? To which of the holy ones will you turn?
2 Resentment kills the senseless, and anger brings death to the fool.
3 I have seen the senseless taking root, when a curse fell suddenly on his house.
4 His children are deprived of prop and stay, ruined at the gate, and no one to defend them;
5 their harvest goes to feed the hungry, God snatches it from their mouths, and covetous people thirst for their possessions.
6 No, misery does not grow out of the soil, nor sorrow spring from the ground.
7 It is people who breed trouble for themselves as surely as eagles fly to the height.
8 If I were you, I should appeal to God and lay my case before him.
9 His works are great, past all reckoning, marvels beyond all counting.
10 He sends down rain to the earth, pours down water on the fields.
11 If his will is to raise up the downcast, or exalt the afflicted to the heights of prosperity,
12 he frustrates the plans of the artful so that they cannot succeed in their intrigues.
13 He traps the crafty in the snare of their own trickery, throws the plans of the cunning into disarray.
14 In daylight they come up against darkness, and grope their way as if noon were night.
15 He rescues the bankrupt from their jaws, and the needy from the grasp of the mighty.
16 Hope springs afresh for the weak, and wickedness must shut its mouth.
17 Blessed are those whom God corrects! Do not then scorn the lesson of Shaddai!
18 For he who wounds is he who soothes the sore, and the hand that hurts is the hand that heals.
19 Six times he will deliver you from sorrow, and the seventh time, evil will not touch you.
20 In time of famine, he will save you from death, and in wartime from the stroke of the sword.
21 You will be safe from the lash of the tongue, unafraid at the approach of the despoiler.
22 You will laugh at drought and frost, and have no fear of the beasts of the earth.
23 You will have a pact with the stones of the field, and live in amity with wild beasts.
24 You will know that your tent is secure, and your sheepfold unharmed when you inspect it.
25 You will see your descendants multiply, your offspring grow like the grass in the fields.
26 At a ripe age you will go to the grave, like a wheatsheaf stacked in due season.
27 All this we have observed and it is so! Heed it, you will be the wiser for it!
