1 I have seen all this with my own eyes, heard with my own ears and understood.
2 Whatever you know, I know too; I am in no way inferior to you.
3 But my words are intended for Shaddai; I mean to remonstrate with God.
4 As for you, you are only charlatans, all worthless as doctors!
5 Will no one teach you to be quiet -- the only wisdom that becomes you!
6 Kindly listen to my accusation and give your attention to the way I shall plead.
7 Do you mean to defend God by prevarication and by dishonest argument,
8 and, taking his side like this, appoint yourselves as his advocates?
9 How would you fare, if he were to scrutinise you? Can he be duped as mortals are duped?
10 He would inflict a harsh rebuke on you for your covert partiality.
11 Does his majesty not affright you? Does his terror not overcome you?
12 Your received ideas are maxims of ash, your retorts, retorts of clay.
13 Be quiet! Kindly let me do the talking, happen to me what may.
14 I am putting my flesh between my teeth, I am taking my life in my hands;
15 let him kill me if he will; I have no other hope than to justify my conduct in his eyes.
16 And this is what will save me, for the wicked would not dare to appear before him.
17 Listen carefully to my words, and pay attention to what I am going to say.
18 You see, I shall proceed by form of law, knowing that I am upright.
19 Who wants to contest my case? In advance, I agree to be silenced and to die!
20 Only grant me two concessions, and then I shall not hide away from your face:
21 remove your hand, which lies so heavy on me, no longer make me cower from your terror.
22 Then call me forward and I shall answer, or rather, I shall speak and you will answer.
23 How many faults and crimes have I committed? Tell me what my misdeed has been, what my sin?
24 Why do you hide your face and look on me as your enemy?
25 Do you want to intimidate a wind-blown leaf, do you want to pursue a dry straw?
26 You who lay bitter allegations against me and tax me with the faults of my youth
27 and have put my feet in the stocks; you examine my every step and measure my footprints one by one!
28 For his part, he crumbles away like rotten wood, or like a moth-eaten garment,
