1 [For the choirmaster Of David Psalm Song] Let God arise, let his enemies scatter, let his opponents flee before him.
2 You disperse them like smoke; as wax melts in the presence of a fire, so the wicked melt at the presence of God.
3 The upright rejoice in the presence of God, delighted and crying out for joy.
4 Sing to God, play music to his name, build a road for the Rider of the Clouds, rejoice in Yahweh, dance before him.
5 Father of orphans, defender of widows, such is God in his holy dwelling.
6 God gives the lonely a home to live in, leads prisoners out into prosperity, but rebels must live in the bare wastelands.
7 God, when you set out at the head of your people, when you strode over the desert,
8 the earth rocked, the heavens pelted down rain at the presence of God, at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
9 God, you rained down a shower of blessings, when your heritage was weary you gave it strength.
10 Your family found a home, which you in your generosity provided for the humble.
11 The Lord gave a command, the good news of a countless army.
12 The chieftains of the army are in flight, in flight, and the fair one at home is sharing out the spoils.
13 While you are at ease in the sheepfolds, the wings of the Dove are being covered with silver, and her feathers with a sheen of green gold;
14 when Shaddai scatters the chieftains, through her it snows on the Dark Mountain.
15 A mountain of God, the mountain of Bashan! a haughty mountain, the mountain of Bashan!
16 Why be envious, haughty mountains, of the mountain God has chosen for his dwelling? There God will dwell for ever.
17 The chariots of God are thousand upon thousand; God has come from Sinai to the sanctuary.
18 You have climbed the heights, taken captives, you have taken men as tribute, even rebels that Yahweh God might have a dwelling-place.
19 Blessed be the Lord day after day, he carries us along, God our Saviour.
20 This God of ours is a God who saves; from Lord Yahweh comes escape from death;
21 but God smashes the head of his enemies, the long-haired skull of the prowling criminal.
22 The Lord has said, 'I will bring them back from Bashan, I will bring them back from the depths of the sea,
23 so that you may bathe your feet in blood, and the tongues of your dogs feast on your enemies.'
24 Your processions, God, are for all to see, the processions of my God, of my king, to the sanctuary;
25 singers ahead, musicians behind, in the middle come girls, beating their drums.
26 In choirs they bless God, Yahweh, since the foundation of Israel.
27 Benjamin was there, the youngest in front, the princes of Judah in bright-coloured robes, the princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali.
28 Take command, my God, as befits your power, the power, God, which you have wielded for us,
29 from your temple high above Jerusalem. Kings will come to you bearing tribute.
30 Rebuke the Beast of the Reeds, that herd of bulls, that people of calves, who bow down with ingots of silver. Scatter the people who delight in war.
31 From Egypt nobles will come, Ethiopia will stretch out its hands to God.
32 Kingdoms of the earth, sing to God, play for
33 the Rider of the Heavens, the primeval heavens. There he speaks, with a voice of power!
34 Acknowledge the power of God. Over Israel his splendour, in the clouds his power.
35 Awesome is God in his sanctuary. He, the God of Israel, gives strength and power to his people. Blessed be God.
