1 In you, Yahweh, I take refuge, I shall never be put to shame.
2 In your saving justice rescue me, deliver me, listen to me and save me.
3 Be a sheltering rock for me, always accessible; you have determined to save me, for you are my rock, my fortress.
4 My God, rescue me from the clutches of the wicked, from the grasp of the rogue and the ruthless.
5 For you are my hope, Lord, my trust, Yahweh, since boyhood.
6 On you I have relied since my birth, since my mother's womb you have been my portion, the constant theme of my praise.
7 Many were bewildered at me, but you are my sure refuge.
8 My mouth is full of your praises, filled with your splendour all day long.
9 Do not reject me in my old age, nor desert me when my strength is failing,
10 for my enemies are discussing me, those with designs on my life are plotting together.
11 'Hound him down, for God has deserted him! Seize him, there is no one to rescue him.'
12 God, do not stand aloof, my God, come quickly to help me.
13 Shame and ruin on those who slander me, may those intent on harming me be covered with insult and infamy.
14 As for me, my hope will never fade, I will praise you more and more.
15 My lips shall proclaim your saving justice, your saving power all day long.
16 I will come in the power of Yahweh to tell of your justice, yours alone.
17 God, you have taught me from boyhood, and I am still proclaiming your marvels.
18 Now that I am old and grey-haired, God, do not desert me, till I have proclaimed your strength to generations still to come, your power
19 and justice to the skies. You have done great things, God, who is like you?
20 You have shown me much misery and hardship, but you will give me life again, You will raise me up again from the depths of the earth,
21 prolong my old age, and comfort me again.
22 For my part, I will thank you on the lyre for your constancy, my God. I will play the harp in your honour, Holy One of Israel.
23 My lips sing for joy as I play to you, because you have redeemed me,
24 and all day long my tongue muses on your saving justice. Shame and disgrace on those intent to harm me!
