1 [Prayer of someone afflicted, who in misfortune pours out sorrows before Yahweh] Yahweh, hear my prayer, let my cry for help reach you.
2 Do not turn away your face from me when I am in trouble; bend down and listen to me, when I call, be quick to answer me!
3 For my days are vanishing like smoke, my bones burning like an oven;
4 like grass struck by blight, my heart is withering, I forget to eat my meals.
5 From the effort of voicing my groans my bones stick out through my skin.
6 I am like a desert-owl in the wastes, a screech-owl among ruins,
7 I keep vigil and moan like a lone bird on a roof.
8 All day long my enemies taunt me, those who once praised me now use me as a curse.
9 Ashes are the food that I eat, my drink is mingled with tears,
10 because of your fury and anger, since you have raised me up only to cast me away;
11 my days are like a fading shadow, I am withering up like grass.
12 But you, Yahweh, are enthroned for ever, each generation in turn remembers you.
13 Rise up, take pity on Zion! the time has come to have mercy on her, the moment has come;
14 for your servants love her very stones, are moved to pity by her dust.
15 Then will the nations revere the name of Yahweh, and all the kings of the earth your glory;
16 when Yahweh builds Zion anew, he will be seen in his glory;
17 he will turn to hear the prayer of the destitute, and will not treat their prayer with scorn.
18 This shall be put on record for a future generation, and a people yet to be born shall praise God:
19 Yahweh has leaned down from the heights of his sanctuary, has looked down from heaven to earth,
20 to listen to the sighing of the captive, and set free those condemned to death,
21 to proclaim the name of Yahweh in Zion, his praise in Jerusalem;
22 nations will gather together, and kingdoms to worship Yahweh.
23 In my journeying my strength has failed on the way;
24 let me know the short time I have left. Do not take me away before half my days are done, for your years run on from age to age.
25 Long ago you laid earth's foundations, the heavens are the work of your hands.
26 They pass away but you remain; they all wear out like a garment, like outworn clothes you change them;
27 but you never alter, and your years never end.
28 The children of those who serve you will dwell secure, and their descendants live on in your presence.
