1 Thus all the work done by Solomon for the Temple of Yahweh was completed, and Solomon brought in the gifts which his father David had consecrated; and he had the silver, the gold and all the utensils put into the treasuries of the Temple of God.
2 Solomon then assembled the elders of Israel to Jerusalem, all the tribal chiefs, the princes of the families of Israel, to bring the ark of the covenant of Yahweh up from the City of David, that is, Zion.
3 All the men of Israel assembled round the king at the time of the feast, that is, in the seventh month.
4 When all the elders of Israel had arrived, the Levites took up the ark;
5 they brought up the ark and the Tent of Meeting and all the sacred utensils which were in the Tent; the levitical priests brought them up.
6 King Solomon and the whole assembly of Israel present with him before the ark sacrificed countless, innumerable sheep and oxen.
7 The priests brought the ark of the covenant of Yahweh to its place, in the Debir of the Temple, that is, in the Holy of Holies, under the wings of the winged creatures;
8 for they spread their wings over the place where the ark stood, forming a canopy over the ark and its shafts.
9 The shafts were so long, however, that the ends of the shafts of the ark could be seen in front of the Holy Place in front of the Debir, though they could not be seen from outside. They are still there today.
10 There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets which Moses had placed in it at Horeb, when Yahweh made a covenant with the Israelites when they came out of Egypt.
11 Now when the priests came out of the Holy Place -- for all the priests present had sanctified themselves regardless of the orders to which they belonged,
12 and all the levitical singers, Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun with their sons and brothers, dressed in linen, were standing to the east of the altar with cymbals, lyres and harps and with them one hundred and twenty priests blowing the trumpets,
13 and the harmony between trumpeters and singers was such that only one melody could be heard as they praised and gave thanks to Yahweh -- and the singing began, to the accompaniment of trumpets, cymbals and musical instruments, and they praised Yahweh 'for his faithful love is everlasting'- then the Temple was filled with the cloud of the glory of Yahweh,
14 and because of the cloud the priests could not stay and perform their duties. For the glory of Yahweh filled the Temple of God.
