1 After the Sabbath, and towards dawn on the first day of the week, Mary of Magdala and the other Mary went to visit the sepulchre.
2 And suddenly there was a violent earthquake, for an angel of the Lord, descending from heaven, came and rolled away the stone and sat on it.
3 His face was like lightning, his robe white as snow.
4 The guards were so shaken by fear of him that they were like dead men.
5 But the angel spoke; and he said to the women, 'There is no need for you to be afraid. I know you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified.
6 He is not here, for he has risen, as he said he would. Come and see the place where he lay,
7 then go quickly and tell his disciples, "He has risen from the dead and now he is going ahead of you to Galilee; that is where you will see him." Look! I have told you.'
8 Filled with awe and great joy the women came quickly away from the tomb and ran to tell his disciples.
9 And suddenly, coming to meet them, was Jesus. 'Greetings,' he said. And the women came up to him and, clasping his feet, they did him homage.
10 Then Jesus said to them, 'Do not be afraid; go and tell my brothers that they must leave for Galilee; there they will see me.'
11 Now while they were on their way, some of the guards went off into the city to tell the chief priests all that had happened.
12 These held a meeting with the elders and, after some discussion, handed a considerable sum of money to the soldiers
13 with these instructions, 'This is what you must say, "His disciples came during the night and stole him away while we were asleep."
14 And should the governor come to hear of this, we undertake to put things right with him ourselves and to see that you do not get into trouble.'
15 So they took the money and carried out their instructions, and to this day that is the story among the Jews.
16 Meanwhile the eleven disciples set out for Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had arranged to meet them.
17 When they saw him they fell down before him, though some hesitated.
18 Jesus came up and spoke to them. He said, 'All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.
19 Go, therefore, make disciples of all nations; baptise them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
20 and teach them to observe all the commands I gave you. And look, I am with you always; yes, to the end of time.'
