1 Saul was dead and David, returning after his victory over the Amalekites, had been at Ziklag for two days.
2 On the third day, a man arrived from Saul's camp with his clothes torn and earth on his head. When he came to David, he fell to the ground and prostrated himself.
3 David asked him, 'Where have you come from?' 'I have escaped from the Israelite camp,' he said.
4 David said, 'What has happened? Tell me.' He replied, 'The people fled from the battle, and many of them have fallen and are dead. Saul and his son Jonathan are dead too.'
5 Then David asked the young man who brought the news, 'How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?'
6 The young man replied, 'I happened to be on Mount Gilboa, and there was Saul, leaning on his spear, with the chariots and the cavalry bearing down on him.
7 Glancing behind him and seeing me, he shouted to me. I replied, "Here I am!"
8 He said, "Who are you?" I replied, "I am an Amalekite."
9 He then said, "Come here and kill me. My head is swimming, although I still have all my strength."
10 So I went over to him and killed him, because I knew that once he fell he could not survive. I then took the crown which he had on his head and the bracelet on his arm, and have brought them here to my lord.'
11 David then took hold of his clothes and tore them, and all the men with him did the same.
12 They mourned and wept and fasted until the evening for Saul and his son Jonathan, for the people of Yahweh and for the House of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.
13 David said to the young man who had brought the news, 'Where are you from?' He replied, 'I am the son of a resident foreigner, an Amalekite.'
14 David said, 'How was it that you were not afraid to lift your hand to destroy Yahweh's anointed?'
15 Then David called one of the young men. 'Come here,' he said, 'strike him down.' The man struck him and he died.
16 David said, 'Your blood be on your own head. You convicted yourself out of your own mouth by saying, "I killed Yahweh's anointed." '
17 David sang the following lament over Saul and his son Jonathan
18 (it is for teaching archery to the children of Judah; it is written in the Book of the Just):
19 Does the splendour of Israel lie dead on your heights? How did the heroes fall?
20 Do not speak of it in Gath, nor broadcast it in the streets of Ashkelon, for fear the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, for fear the daughters of the uncircumcised gloat.
21 You mountains of Gilboa, no dew, no rain fall on you, O treacherous fields where the heroes' shield lies dishonoured! Not greased with oil, the shield of Saul,
22 but with the blood of wounded men, the fat of warriors! The bow of Jonathan never turned back, the sword of Saul never came home unsated!
23 Saul and Jonathan, beloved and handsome, were divided neither in life, nor in death. Swifter than eagles were they, stronger than lions.
24 O daughters of Israel, weep for Saul who gave you scarlet and fine linen to wear, who pinned golden jewellery on your dresses!
25 How did the heroes fall in the thick of the battle? Jonathan, by your dying I too am stricken,
26 I am desolate for you, Jonathan my brother. Very dear you were to me, your love more wonderful to me than the love of a woman.
27 How did the heroes fall and the weapons of war succumb!
