1 After this, David defeated the Philistines and subdued them. From the grip of the Philistines he wrested . . .
2 He also defeated the Moabites and, making them lie on the ground, measured them off by the line; he measured out two lines to be put to death and one full line to have their lives spared. The Moabites became David's subjects and paid him tribute.
3 David defeated Hadadezer son of Rehob, king of Zobah, when the latter mounted an expedition to extend his power over the River.
4 David captured one thousand seven hundred charioteers and twenty thousand foot soldiers from him; David hamstrung all the chariot teams, keeping only a hundred of them.
5 The Aramaeans of Damascus came to the help of Hadadezer king of Zobah, but David killed twenty-two thousand of the Aramaeans.
6 David then imposed governors on Aram of Damascus, and the Aramaeans became David's subjects and paid him tribute. Wherever David went, Yahweh gave him victory.
7 David took the golden shields carried by Hadadezer's guards and brought them to Jerusalem.
8 From Betah and Berothai, towns belonging to Hadadezer, King David captured a great quantity of bronze.
9 When Tou king of Hamath heard that David had defeated Hadadezer's entire army,
10 he sent his son Hadoram to King David to greet him and to congratulate him on having made war on Hadadezer and on having defeated him, since Hadadezer was at war with Tou. Hadoram brought with him objects made of silver, gold and bronze,
11 which King David also consecrated to Yahweh, as he had already consecrated the silver and gold taken from all the nations which he had subjugated-
12 from Aram, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines and Amalek; and from the spoil of Hadadezer son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
13 David became famous when he came home from defeating the Edomites in the Valley of Salt -- eighteen thousand of them.
14 He imposed governors on Edom and all the Edomites became David's subjects. Wherever David went, Yahweh gave him victory.
15 David ruled over all Israel, administering law and justice to all his people.
16 Joab son of Zeruiah was in command of the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was herald;
17 Zadok and Abiathar son of Ahimelech, son of Ahitub, were priests; Seraiah was secretary;
18 Benaiah son of Jehoiada was in command of the Cherethites and Pelethites; David's sons were priests.
