1 These are the last words of David: Thus speaks David son of Jesse, thus speaks the man raised to eminence, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the singer of the songs of Israel:
2 The spirit of Yahweh speaks through me, his word is on my tongue;
3 the God of Jacob has spoken, the Rock of Israel has said to me: He whose rule is upright on earth, who rules in the fear of God,
4 is like the morning light at sunrise (on a cloudless morning) making the grass of the earth sparkle after rain.
5 Yes, my House stands firm with God: he has made an eternal covenant with me, all in order, well assured; does he not bring to fruition my every victory and desire?
6 But men of Belial he rejects like thorns, for these are never taken up in the hand:
7 no one touches them except with a pitchfork or spear-shaft, and then only to burn them to nothing!
8 These are the names of David's champions: Ishbaal the Hachmonite leader of the Three; it was he who brandished his spear over eight hundred men whom he had killed at one time.
9 Next, there was Eleazar son of Dodo, the Ahohite, one of the three champions. He was with David at Pas-Dammim when the Philistines mustered for battle there and the men of Israel had disbanded.
10 But he stood his ground and cut down the Philistines until his hand was so stiff that he could not let go of the sword. Yahweh brought about a great victory that day, and the people rallied behind him, although only to plunder.
11 Next, there was Shamma son of Elah, the Hararite. The Philistines had mustered at Lehi. There was a field full of lentils there; the people fled from the Philistines,
12 but he took his stand in the middle of the field, held it, and cut down the Philistines; and Yahweh brought about a great victory.
13 Three members of the Thirty went down at the beginning of the harvest and came to David at the Cave of Adullam while a company of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of the Rephaim.
14 David was then in the stronghold, and there was a Philistine garrison in Bethlehem.
15 Longingly David said, 'If only someone would fetch me a drink of water from the well that stands by the gate at Bethlehem!'
16 At this, the three champions, forcing their way through the Philistine camp, drew water from the well that stands by the gate of Bethlehem and, taking it away, presented it to David. He, however, would not drink any of it, but poured it out as a libation to Yahweh. 
17 'Yahweh preserve me', he said, 'from doing such a thing! This is the blood of men who went at risk of their lives.' That was why he would not drink. Such were the deeds of these three champions.
18 Abishai, brother of Joab and son of Zeruiah, was leader of the Thirty. It was he who brandished his spear over three hundred men whom he had killed, winning himself a name among the Thirty.
19 He was a most illustrious member of the Thirty and became their captain, but he was not equal to the Three.
20 Benaiah of Kabzeel was the son of Jehoiada and hero of many exploits. He it was who slaughtered two formidable Moabites and, one snowy day, climbed down and slaughtered the lion in the storage-well.
21 He also slaughtered an Egyptian of great stature. The Egyptian was armed with a spear, but he took him on with a staff, tore the spear from the Egyptian's hand and killed the man with it.
22 Such were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada, winning him a name among the thirty champions.
23 He was a most illustrious member of the Thirty, but he was not equal to the Three. David put him in command of his bodyguard.
24 Asahel brother of Joab was one of the Thirty; Elhanan son of Dodo, of Bethlehem;
25 Shammah of Harod; Elika of Harod;
26 Helez of Beth-Pelet; Ira son of Ikkesh, of Tekoa;
27 Abiezer of Anathoth; Sibbecai of Hushah;
28 Zalmon of Ahoh; Maharai of Netophah;
29 Heled son of Baanah, of Netophah; Ittai son of Ribai, of Gibeah in Benjamin;
30 Benaiah of Pirathon; Hiddai of the Torrents of Gaash;
31 Abibaal of Beth-ha-Arabah; Azmaveth of Bahurim;
32 Eliahba of Shaalbon; Jashen of Gimzo; Jonathan
33 son of Shammah, of Harar; Ahiam son of Sharar, of Harar;
34 Eliphelet son of Ahasbai, of Beth-Maacah; Eliam son of Ahithophel, of Gilo;
35 Hezro of Carmel; Paarai of Arab;
36 Igal son of Nathan, of Zobah; Bani the Gadite;
37 Zelek the Ammonite; Naharai of Beeroth squire to Joab, son of Zeruiah;
38 Ira of Jattir; Gareb of Jattir;
39 Uriah the Hittite- thirty-seven in all.
