1 Disaster to the rebellious, the befouled, the tyrannical city!
2 She has not listened to the call, she has not bowed to correction, she has not trusted in Yahweh, she has not drawn near to her God.
3 The rulers she has are roaring lions, her judges are wolves of the wastelands which leave nothing over for the morning,
4 her prophets are braggarts, impostors, her priests have profaned what is holy and violated the Law.
5 Yahweh the Upright is in her, he does no wrong; morning by morning he gives judgement, each dawn unfailingly (but the wrong-doer knows no shame).
6 I have exterminated the nations, their corner-towers lie in ruins; I have emptied their streets, no one walks through them; their cities have been destroyed and are now deserted and unpeopled.
7 I thought, 'At least you will fear me, at least you will bow to correction,' and none of the punishments I brought on them will disappear from their view. But no, it only made them more anxious to do whatever was corrupt.
8 So wait for me -- declares Yahweh -- for the day when I rise as accuser, for I am determined to gather the nations, to assemble the kingdoms, and on you to vent my fury, the whole heat of my anger (for the whole earth will be devoured by the fire of my jealousy).
9 Yes, then I shall purge the lips of the peoples, so that all may invoke the name of Yahweh and serve him shoulder to shoulder.
10 From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia, my suppliants will bring me tribute.
11 When that Day comes you will never again be ashamed of all the deeds with which you once rebelled against me, for I shall rid you of those who exult in your pride; never again will you strut on my holy mountain.
12 But in you I shall leave surviving a humble and lowly people,
13 and those who are left in Israel will take refuge in the name of Yahweh. They will do no wrong, will tell no lies; nor will a deceitful tongue be found in their mouths. But they will be able to graze and rest with no one to alarm them.
14 Shout for joy, daughter of Zion, Israel, shout aloud! Rejoice, exult with all your heart, daughter of Jerusalem!
15 Yahweh has repealed your sentence; he has turned your enemy away. Yahweh is king among you, Israel, you have nothing more to fear.
16 When that Day comes, the message for Jerusalem will be: Zion, have no fear, do not let your hands fall limp.
17 Yahweh your God is there with you, the warrior-Saviour. He will rejoice over you with happy song, he will renew you by his love, he will dance with shouts of joy for you,
18 as on a day of festival. I have taken away your misfortune, no longer need you bear the disgrace of it.
19 I am taking action here and now against your oppressors. When that time comes I will rescue the lame, and gather the strays, and I will win them praise and renown when I restore their fortunes.
20 At that time I shall be your guide, at the time when I gather you in, I shall give you praise and renown among all the peoples of the earth when I restore your fortunes under your own eyes, declares Yahweh.
