1 So then, now that we have been justified by faith, we are at peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ;
2 it is through him, by faith, that we have been admitted into God's favour in which we are living, and look forward exultantly to God's glory.
3 Not only that; let us exult, too, in our hardships, understanding that hardship develops perseverance,
4 and perseverance develops a tested character, something that gives us hope,
5 and a hope which will not let us down, because the love of God has been poured into our hearts by the Holy Spirit which has been given to us.
6 When we were still helpless, at the appointed time, Christ died for the godless.
7 You could hardly find anyone ready to die even for someone upright; though it is just possible that, for a really good person, someone might undertake to die.
8 So it is proof of God's own love for us, that Christ died for us while we were still sinners.
9 How much more can we be sure, therefore, that, now that we have been justified by his death, we shall be saved through him from the retribution of God.
10 For if, while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, how much more can we be sure that, being now reconciled, we shall be saved by his life.
11 What is more, we are filled with exultant trust in God, through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have already gained our reconciliation.
12 Well then; it was through one man that sin came into the world, and through sin death, and thus death has spread through the whole human race because everyone has sinned.
13 Sin already existed in the world before there was any law, even though sin is not reckoned when there is no law.
14 Nonetheless death reigned over all from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sin was not the breaking of a commandment, as Adam's was. He prefigured the One who was to come . . .
15 There is no comparison between the free gift and the offence. If death came to many through the offence of one man, how much greater an effect the grace of God has had, coming to so many and so plentifully as a free gift through the one man Jesus Christ!
16 Again, there is no comparison between the gift and the offence of one man. One single offence brought condemnation, but now, after many offences, have come the free gift and so acquittal!
17 It was by one man's offence that death came to reign over all, but how much greater the reign in life of those who receive the fullness of grace and the gift of saving justice, through the one man, Jesus Christ.
18 One man's offence brought condemnation on all humanity; and one man's good act has brought justification and life to all humanity.
19 Just as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by one man's obedience are many to be made upright.
20 When law came on the scene, it was to multiply the offences. But however much sin increased, grace was always greater;
21 so that as sin's reign brought death, so grace was to rule through saving justice that leads to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
