1 It is for us who are strong to bear with the susceptibilities of the weaker ones, and not please ourselves.
2 Each of us must consider his neighbour's good, so that we support one another.
3 Christ did not indulge his own feelings, either; indeed, as scripture says: The insults of those who insult you fall on me.
4 And all these things which were written so long ago were written so that we, learning perseverance and the encouragement which the scriptures give, should have hope.
5 Now the God of perseverance and encouragement give you all the same purpose, following the example of Christ Jesus,
6 so that you may together give glory to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ with one heart.
7 Accept one another, then, for the sake of God's glory, as Christ accepted you.
8 I tell you that Christ's work was to serve the circumcised, fulfilling the truthfulness of God by carrying out the promises made to the fathers,
9 and his work was also for the gentiles, so that they should give glory to God for his faithful love; as scripture says: For this I shall praise you among the nations and sing praise to your name.
10 And in another place it says: Nations, rejoice, with his people,
11 and in another place again: Praise the Lord, all nations, extol him, all peoples.
12 And in Isaiah, it says: The root of Jesse will appear, he who rises up to rule the nations, and in him the nations will put their hope.
13 May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in your faith, so that in the power of the Holy Spirit you may be rich in hope.
14 My brothers, I am quite sure that you, in particular, are full of goodness, fully instructed and capable of correcting each other.
15 But I have special confidence in writing on some points to you, to refresh your memories, because of the grace that was given to me by God.
16 I was given grace to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the gentiles, dedicated to offer them the gospel of God, so that gentiles might become an acceptable offering, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
17 So I can be proud, in Christ Jesus, of what I have done for God.
18 Of course I can dare to speak only of the things which Christ has done through me to win the allegiance of the gentiles, using what I have said and done,
19 by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God. In this way, from Jerusalem and all round, even as far as Illyricum, I have fully carried out the preaching of the gospel of Christ;
20 and what is more, it has been my rule to preach the gospel only where the name of Christ has not already been heard, for I do not build on another's foundations;
21 in accordance with scripture: Those who have never been told about him will see him, and those who have never heard about him will understand.
22 That is why I have been so often prevented from coming to see you;
23 now, however, as there is nothing more to keep me in these parts, I hope, after longing for many years past to visit you, to see you when I am on the way to Spain-
24 and after enjoying at least something of your company, to be sent on my way with your support.
25 But now I have undertaken to go to Jerusalem in the service of the holy people of God there,
26 since Macedonia and Achaia have chosen to make a generous contribution to the poor among God's holy people at Jerusalem.
27 Yes, they chose to; not that they did not owe it to them. For if the gentiles have been given a share in their spiritual possessions, then in return to give them help with material possessions is repaying a debt to them.
28 So when I have done this, and given this harvest into their possession, I shall visit you on the way to Spain.
29 I am sure that, when I do come to you, I shall come with the fullest blessing of Christ.
30 Meanwhile I urge you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, that in your prayers to God for me you exert yourselves to help me;
31 praying that I may escape the unbelievers in Judaea, and that the aid I am carrying to Jerusalem will be acceptable to God's holy people.
32 Then I shall come to you, if God wills, for a happy time of relaxation in your company.
33 The God of peace be with you all. Amen.
