1 I commend to you our sister Phoebe, a deaconess of the church at Cenchreae;
2 give her, in the Lord, a welcome worthy of God's holy people, and help her with whatever she needs from you -- she herself has come to the help of many people, including myself.
3 My greetings to Prisca and Aquila, my fellow-workers in Christ Jesus,
4 who risked their own necks to save my life; to them, thanks not only from me, but from all the churches among the gentiles;
5 and my greetings to the church at their house. Greetings to my dear friend Epaenetus, the first of Asia's offerings to Christ.
6 Greetings to Mary, who worked so hard for you.
7 Greetings to those outstanding apostles, Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and fellow-prisoners, who were in Christ before me.
8 Greetings to Ampliatus, my dear friend in the Lord.
9 Greetings to Urban, my fellow-worker in Christ, and to my dear friend Stachys.
10 Greetings to Apelles, proved servant of Christ. Greetings to all the household of Aristobulus.
11 Greetings to my kinsman, Herodion, and greetings to those who belong to the Lord in the household of Narcissus.
12 Greetings to Tryphaena and Tryphosa who work hard in the Lord; greetings to my dear friend Persis, also a very hard worker in the Lord.
13 Greetings to Rufus, chosen servant of the Lord, and to his mother -- a mother to me too.
14 Greetings to Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them.
15 Greetings to Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas and all God's holy people who are with them.
16 Greet each other with the holy kiss. All the churches of Christ send their greetings.
17 I urge you, brothers, be on your guard against the people who are out to stir up disagreements and bring up difficulties against the teaching which you learnt. Avoid them.
18 People of that sort are servants not of our Lord Christ, but of their own greed; and with talk that sounds smooth and reasonable they deceive the minds of the unwary.
19 Your obedience has become known to everyone, and I am very pleased with you for it; but I should want you to be learned only in what is good, and unsophisticated about all that is evil.
20 The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
21 Timothy, who is working with me, sends greetings to you, and so do my kinsmen Lucius, Jason and Sosipater.
22 I, Tertius, who am writing this letter, greet you in the Lord.
23 Greetings to you from Gaius, my host here, and host of the whole church. Erastus, the city treasurer, sends greetings to you, and our brother Quartus.
24 
25 And now to him who can make you strong in accordance with the gospel that I preach and the proclamation of Jesus Christ, in accordance with that mystery which for endless ages was kept secret
26 but now (as the prophets wrote) is revealed, as the eternal God commanded, to be made known to all the nations, so that they obey in faith:
27 to him, the only wise God, give glory through Jesus Christ for ever and ever. Amen.
