1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, as follows,
2 'Yahweh, God of Israel, says this, "Write for yourself in a book all the words I have spoken to you.
3 For look, the days are coming, Yahweh declares, when I shall bring back the captives of my people Israel (and Judah), Yahweh says. I shall make them come back and take possession of the country I gave to their ancestors." '
4 These are the words Yahweh spoke about Israel (and Judah):
5 Yahweh says this: We have heard a cry of panic, of terror, not of peace.
6 Now ask and see: can a man bear children? Then why do I see each man with his hands on his loins like a woman in labour? Why has every face grown pale?
7 Disaster! This is the great day, no other like it: a time of distress for Jacob, though he will be saved from it.
8 (That day, Yahweh Sabaoth declares, I shall break the yoke now on your neck and snap your chains; and foreigners will enslave you no more,
9 but Israel and Judah will serve Yahweh their God, and David their king whom I shall raise up for them.)
10 So do not be afraid, my servant Jacob, Yahweh declares, Israel, do not be alarmed: for look, I shall rescue you from distant countries and your descendants from the country where they are captive. Jacob will return and be at peace, secure, with no one to trouble him. 
11 For I am with you to save you, Yahweh declares, I shall make an end of all the nations where I have driven you, but I shall not make an end of you, only discipline you in moderation, not to let you go quite unpunished.
12 Yes, Yahweh says this: Your wound is incurable, your injury past healing.
13 There is no one to plead your cause; for an ulcer there are remedies, but for you no cure at all.
14 All your lovers have forgotten you, they look for you no more. Yes, I have struck you as an enemy strikes, with cruel punishment (because of your great guilt and countless sins).
15 Why cry out because of your wound? Your pain is incurable! Because of your great guilt and countless sins, I have treated you like this.
16 But all those who devoured you will be devoured, all your enemies, all, go into captivity, those who despoiled you will be despoiled, and all who pillaged you be pillaged.
17 For I shall restore you to health and heal your wounds, Yahweh declares, you who used to be called 'Outcast', 'Zion for whom no one cares'.
18 Yahweh says this: Look, I shall restore the tents of Jacob and take pity on his dwellings: the town will be rebuilt on its mound, the stronghold where it ought to stand.
19 From them will come thanksgiving and shouts of joy. I shall make them increase, they will not decrease; I shall make them honoured, no more to be humbled.
20 Their sons will be as once they were, their community fixed firmly before me, and I shall punish all their oppressors.
21 Their prince will be one of their own, their ruler come from their own people, and I shall permit him to approach me freely; for who, otherwise, would be so bold as to approach me, Yahweh demands?
22 You will be my people and I shall be your God.
23 Look, Yahweh's hurricane, his wrath, bursts out, a roaring hurricane, to burst on the heads of the wicked;
24 Yahweh's burning anger will not turn aside until he has performed, has carried out, what he has in mind. In the final days, you will understand this.
