1 My dear friends, this is the second letter I have written to you, trying to awaken in you by my reminders an unclouded understanding.
2 Remember what was said in the past by the holy prophets and the command of the Lord and Saviour given by your apostles.
3 First of all, do not forget that in the final days there will come sarcastic scoffers whose life is ruled by their passions.
4 'What has happened to the promise of his coming?' they will say, 'Since our Fathers died everything has gone on just as it has since the beginning of creation!'
5 They deliberately ignore the fact that long ago there were the heavens and the earth, formed out of water and through water by the Word of God,
6 and that it was through these same factors that the world of those days was destroyed by the floodwaters.
7 It is the same Word which is reserving the present heavens and earth for fire, keeping them till the Day of Judgement and of the destruction of sinners.
8 But there is one thing, my dear friends, that you must never forget: that with the Lord, a day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like a day.
9 The Lord is not being slow in carrying out his promises, as some people think he is; rather is he being patient with you, wanting nobody to be lost and everybody to be brought to repentance.
10 The Day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then with a roar the sky will vanish, the elements will catch fire and melt away, the earth and all that it contains will be burned up.
11 Since everything is coming to an end like this, what holy and saintly lives you should be living
12 while you wait for the Day of God to come, and try to hasten its coming: on that Day the sky will dissolve in flames and the elements melt in the heat.
13 What we are waiting for, relying on his promises, is the new heavens and new earth, where uprightness will be at home.
14 So then, my dear friends, while you are waiting, do your best to live blameless and unsullied lives so that he will find you at peace.
15 Think of our Lord's patience as your opportunity to be saved; our brother Paul, who is so dear to us, told you this when he wrote to you with the wisdom that he was given.
16 He makes this point too in his letters as a whole wherever he touches on these things. In all his letters there are of course some passages which are hard to understand, and these are the ones that uneducated and unbalanced people distort, in the same way as they distort the rest of scripture--to their own destruction.
17 Since you have been forewarned about this, my dear friends, be careful that you do not come to the point of losing the firm ground that you are standing on, carried away by the errors of unprincipled people.
18 Instead, continue to grow in the grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him be glory, in time and eternity. Amen.
