1 That is why all you who are holy brothers and share the same heavenly call should turn your minds to Jesus, the apostle and the high priest of our profession of faith.
2 He was trustworthy to the one who appointed him, just like Moses, who remained trustworthy in all his household;
3 but he deserves a greater glory than Moses, just as the builder of a house is more honoured than the house itself.
4 Every house is built by someone, of course; but God built everything that exists.
5 It is true that Moses was trustworthy in the household of God, as a servant is, acting as witness to the things which were yet to be revealed,
6 but Christ is trustworthy as a son is, over his household. And we are his household, as long as we fearlessly maintain the hope in which we glory.
7 That is why, as the Holy Spirit says: If only you would listen to him today!
8 Do not harden your hearts, as at the rebellion, as at the time of testing in the desert,
9 when your ancestors challenged me, and put me to the test, and saw what I could do
10 for forty years. That was why that generation sickened me and I said, 'Always fickle hearts, that cannot grasp my ways!'
11 And then in my anger I swore that they would never enter my place of rest.
12 Take care, brothers, that none of you ever has a wicked heart, so unbelieving as to turn away from the living God.
13 Every day, as long as this today lasts, keep encouraging one another so that none of you is hardened by the lure of sin,
14 because we have been granted a share with Christ only if we keep the grasp of our first confidence firm to the end.
15 In this saying: If only you would listen to him today; do not harden your hearts, as at the Rebellion,
16 who was it who listened and then rebelled? Surely all those whom Moses led out of Egypt.
17 And with whom was he angry for forty years? Surely with those who sinned and whose dead bodies fell in the desert.
18 To whom did he swear they would never enter his place of rest? Surely those who would not believe.
19 So we see that it was their refusal to believe which prevented them from entering.
