1 On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee. The mother of Jesus was there,
2 and Jesus and his disciples had also been invited.
3 And they ran out of wine, since the wine provided for the feast had all been used, and the mother of Jesus said to him, 'They have no wine.'
4 Jesus said, 'Woman, what do you want from me? My hour has not come yet.'
5 His mother said to the servants, 'Do whatever he tells you.'
6 There were six stone water jars standing there, meant for the ablutions that are customary among the Jews: each could hold twenty or thirty gallons.
7 Jesus said to the servants, 'Fill the jars with water,' and they filled them to the brim.
8 Then he said to them, 'Draw some out now and take it to the president of the feast.'
9 They did this; the president tasted the water, and it had turned into wine. Having no idea where it came from -- though the servants who had drawn the water knew -- the president of the feast called the bridegroom
10 and said, 'Everyone serves good wine first and the worse wine when the guests are well wined; but you have kept the best wine till now.'
11 This was the first of Jesus' signs: it was at Cana in Galilee. He revealed his glory, and his disciples believed in him.
12 After this he went down to Capernaum with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, but they stayed there only a few days.
13 When the time of the Jewish Passover was near Jesus went up to Jerusalem,
14 and in the Temple he found people selling cattle and sheep and doves, and the money changers sitting there.
15 Making a whip out of cord, he drove them all out of the Temple, sheep and cattle as well, scattered the money changers' coins, knocked their tables over
16 and said to the dove sellers, 'Take all this out of here and stop using my Father's house as a market.'
17 Then his disciples remembered the words of scripture: I am eaten up with zeal for your house.
18 The Jews intervened and said, 'What sign can you show us that you should act like this?'
19 Jesus answered, 'Destroy this Temple, and in three days I will raise it up.'
20 The Jews replied, 'It has taken forty-six years to build this Temple: are you going to raise it up again in three days?'
21 But he was speaking of the Temple that was his body,
22 and when Jesus rose from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scripture and what he had said.
23 During his stay in Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he did,
24 but Jesus knew all people and did not trust himself to them;
25 he never needed evidence about anyone; he could tell what someone had within.
