1 After saying this, Jesus raised his eyes to heaven and said: Father, the hour has come: glorify your Son so that your Son may glorify you;
2 so that, just as you have given him power over all humanity, he may give eternal life to all those you have entrusted to him.
3 And eternal life is this: to know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
4 I have glorified you on earth by finishing the work that you gave me to do.
5 Now, Father, glorify me with that glory I had with you before ever the world existed.
6 I have revealed your name to those whom you took from the world to give me. They were yours and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.
7 Now at last they have recognised that all you have given me comes from you
8 for I have given them the teaching you gave to me, and they have indeed accepted it and know for certain that I came from you, and have believed that it was you who sent me.
9 It is for them that I pray. I am not praying for the world but for those you have given me, because they belong to you.
10 All I have is yours and all you have is mine, and in them I am glorified.
11 I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep those you have given me true to your name, so that they may be one like us.
12 While I was with them, I kept those you had given me true to your name. I have watched over them and not one is lost except one who was destined to be lost, and this was to fulfil the scriptures.
13 But now I am coming to you and I say these things in the world to share my joy with them to the full.
14 I passed your word on to them, and the world hated them, because they belong to the world no more than I belong to the world.
15 I am not asking you to remove them from the world, but to protect them from the Evil One.
16 They do not belong to the world any more than I belong to the world.
17 Consecrate them in the truth; your word is truth.
18 As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world,
19 and for their sake I consecrate myself so that they too may be consecrated in truth.
20 I pray not only for these but also for those who through their teaching will come to believe in me.
21 May they all be one, just as, Father, you are in me and I am in you, so that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe it was you who sent me.
22 I have given them the glory you gave to me, that they may be one as we are one.
23 With me in them and you in me, may they be so perfected in unity that the world will recognise that it was you who sent me and that you have loved them as you have loved me.
24 Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am, so that they may always see my glory which you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world.
25 Father, Upright One, the world has not known you, but I have known you, and these have known that you have sent me.
26 I have made your name known to them and will continue to make it known, so that the love with which you loved me may be in them, and so that I may be in them.
