1 These were the people of the province who returned from the captivity of the Exile, those whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had deported to Babylon, and who returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his own town.
2 They were the ones who arrived with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum and Baanah. The number of the men of the people of the country of Israel:
3 sons of Parosh, two thousand one hundred and seventy-two;
4 sons of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy-two;
5 sons of Arah, seven hundred and seventy-five;
6 sons of Pahath-Moab, that is to say the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve;
7 sons of Elam, one thousand two hundred and fifty-four;
8 sons of Zattu, nine hundred and forty-five;
9 sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty;
10 sons of Bani, six hundred and forty-two;
11 sons of Bebai, six hundred and twenty-three;
12 sons of Azgad, one thousand two hundred and twenty-two;
13 sons of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty-six;
14 sons of Bigvai, two thousand and fifty-six;
15 sons of Adin, four hundred and fifty-four;
16 sons of Ater, that is to say of Hezekiah, ninety-eight;
17 sons of Bezai, three hundred and twenty-three;
18 sons of Jorah, one hundred and twelve;
19 sons of Hashum, two hundred and twenty-three;
20 sons of Gibbar, ninety-five;
21 sons of Bethlehem, one hundred and twenty-three;
22 men of Netophah, fifty-six;
23 men of Anathoth, one hundred and twenty-eight;
24 sons of Azmaveth, forty-two;
25 sons of Kiriath-Jearim, Chephirah and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty-three;
26 sons of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty-one;
27 men of Michmas, one hundred and twenty-two;
28 men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred and twenty-three;
29 sons of Nebo, fifty-two;
30 of Magbish, one hundred and fifty-six;
31 sons of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred and fifty-four;
32 sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty;
33 sons of Lod, Hadid and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-five;
34 sons of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five;
35 sons of Senaah, three thousand six hundred and thirty.
36 The priests: sons of Jedaiah, of the House of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy-three;
37 sons of Immer, one thousand and fifty-two;
38 sons of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred and forty-seven;
39 sons of Harim, one thousand and seventeen.
40 The Levites: sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the line of Hodaviah, seventy-four.
41 The singers: sons of Asaph, one hundred and twenty-eight.
42 The sons of the gatekeepers: sons of Shallum, sons of Ater, sons of Talmon, sons of Akkub, sons of Hatita, sons of Shobai: in all, one hundred and thirty-nine.
43 The temple slaves: sons of Ziha, sons of Hasupha, sons of Tabbaoth,
44 sons of Keros, sons of Siaha, sons of Padon,
45 sons of Lebanah, sons of Hagabah, sons of Akkub,
46 sons of Hagab, sons of Shamlai, sons of Hanan,
47 sons of Giddel, sons of Gahar, sons of Reaiah,
48 sons of Rezin, sons of Nekoda, sons of Gazzam,
49 sons of Uzza, sons of Paseah, sons of Besai,
50 sons of Asnah, sons of the Meunites, sons of the Nephisites,
51 sons of Bakbuk, sons of Hakupha, sons of Harhur,
52 sons of Bazluth, sons of Mehida, sons of Harsha,
53 sons of Barkos, sons of Sisera, sons of Temah,
54 sons of Neziah, sons of Hatipha.
55 The sons of Solomon's slaves: sons of Sotai, sons of Hassophereth, sons of Peruda,
56 sons of Jaalah, sons of Darkon, sons of Giddel,
57 sons of Shephatiah, sons of Hattil, sons of Pochereth-ha-Zebaim, sons of Ami.
58 The total of the temple slaves and the sons of Solomon's slaves: three hundred and ninety-two.
59 The following, who came from Tel-Melah, Tel-Harsha, Cherub, Addan and Immer, could not prove that their families and ancestry were of Israelite origin:
60 the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda: six hundred and fifty-two.
61 And among the sons of the priests: the sons of Habaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai -- who had married one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, whose name he adopted.
62 These had looked for their entries in the official genealogies but were not to be found there, and were hence disqualified from the priesthood.
63 Consequently, His Excellency forbade them to eat any of the consecrated food until a priest appeared who could consult urim and thummim.
64 The whole assembly numbered forty-two thousand, three hundred and sixty people,
65 not counting their male and female slaves to the number of seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven. They also had two hundred male and female singers.
66 Their horses numbered seven hundred and thirty-six, their mules two hundred and forty-five,
67 their camels four hundred and thirty-five and their donkeys six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
68 When they arrived at the Temple of Yahweh in Jerusalem, a certain number of heads of families made voluntary offerings for the Temple of God, for its rebuilding on its site.
69 In accordance with their means they gave sixty-one thousand gold drachmas, five thousand silver minas and one hundred priestly robes to the sacred treasury.
70 The priests, the Levites and some of the people settled in Jerusalem; the singers, the gatekeepers and the temple slaves in their appropriate towns; and all the other Israelites in their own towns.
