1 Masters, make sure that your slaves are given what is upright and fair, knowing that you too have a Master in heaven.
2 Be persevering in your prayers and be thankful as you stay awake to pray.
3 Pray for us especially, asking God to throw open a door for us to announce the message and proclaim the mystery of Christ, for the sake of which I am in chains;
4 pray that I may proclaim it as clearly as I ought.
5 Act wisely with outsiders, making the best of the present time.
6 Always talk pleasantly and with a flavour of wit but be sensitive to the kind of answer each one requires.
7 Tychicus will tell you all the news about me. He is a very dear brother, and a trustworthy helper and companion in the service of the Lord.
8 I am sending him to you precisely for this purpose: to give you news about us and to encourage you thoroughly.
9 With him I am sending Onesimus, that dear and trustworthy brother who is a fellow-citizen of yours. They will tell you everything that is happening here.
10 Aristarchus, who is here in prison with me, sends his greetings, and so does Mark, the cousin of Barnabas -- you were sent some instructions about him; if he comes to you, give him a warm welcome-
11 and Jesus Justus adds his greetings. Of all those who have come over from the circumcision, these are the only ones actually working with me for the kingdom of God. They have been a great comfort to me.
12 Epaphras, your fellow-citizen, sends his greetings; this servant of Christ Jesus never stops battling for you, praying that you will never lapse but always hold perfectly and securely to the will of God.
13 I can testify for him that he works hard for you, as well as for those at Laodicea and Hierapolis.
14 Greetings from my dear friend Luke, the doctor, and also from Demas.
15 Please give my greetings to the brothers at Laodicea and to Nympha and the church which meets in her house.
16 After this letter has been read among you, send it on to be read in the church of the Laodiceans; and get the letter from Laodicea for you to read yourselves.
17 Give Archippus this message, 'Remember the service that the Lord assigned to you, and try to carry it out.'
18 This greeting is in my own hand-PAUL. Remember the chains I wear. Grace be with you.
