1 ' "If anyone offers Yahweh a cereal offering, his offering must consist of wheaten flour on which he must pour wine and put incense.
2 He will bring it to the priests descended from Aaron; he will take a handful of the wheaten flour, some of the oil and all the incense, and this the priest will burn on the altar as a memorial, as food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh.
3 The remainder of the cereal offering will revert to Aaron and his sons, an especially holy portion of the food burnt for Yahweh.
4 "When you offer a cereal offering of dough baked in the oven, the wheaten flour must be prepared either in the form of unleavened cakes mixed with oil, or in the form of unleavened wafers spread with oil.
5 "If your offering is a cereal offering cooked on the griddle, the wheaten flour mixed with oil must contain no leaven.
6 You will break it in pieces and pour oil over it. It is a cereal offering.
7 "If your offering is a cereal offering cooked in the pan, the wheaten flour must be prepared with oil.
8 "You will bring Yahweh the cereal offering thus prepared and present it to the priest; he will take it to the altar.
9 And from the cereal offering the priest will take the memorial and burn it on the altar, food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh.
10 The remainder of the cereal offering will revert to Aaron and his descendants: it is especially holy since it is taken from the food burnt for Yahweh.
11 "None of the cereal offerings which you offer to Yahweh must be prepared with leaven, for you must never include leaven or honey in food burnt for Yahweh.
12 You may offer them to Yahweh as an offering of first-fruits, but they will not make a pleasing smell if they are burnt on the altar.
13 You will put salt in every cereal offering that you offer, and you will not fail to put the salt of the covenant of your God on your cereal offering; to every offering you will add an offering of salt to your God.
14 If you offer Yahweh a cereal offering of first-fruits, you will offer it in the form of roasted ears of wheat or of bread made from ground wheat.
15 You will add oil to it and put incense on it; it is a cereal offering;
16 and from it the priest will burn the memorial with some bread and oil (and all the incense) as food burnt for Yahweh." '
