1 ' "If his sacrifice is a communion sacrifice, and if he offers an animal from the herd, be it male or female, whatever he offers before Yahweh must be unblemished.
2 He will lay his hand on the victim's head and slaughter it at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. The priests descended from Aaron will then pour the blood all around the altar.
3 He will offer part of the communion sacrifice as food burnt for Yahweh: the fat covering the entrails, all the fat on the entrails,
4 both kidneys, the fat on them and on the loins, the mass of fat which he will remove from the liver and kidneys.
5 The priests descended from Aaron will then burn this on the altar, in addition to the burnt offering, on the wood of the fire, food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh.
6 "If it is an animal from the flock which he offers as a communion sacrifice to Yahweh, be the animal that he offers male or female, it must be unblemished.
7 "If he offers a sheep, he will offer it before Yahweh,
8 he will lay his hand on the victim's head and slaughter it in front of the Tent of Meeting; the priests descended from Aaron will then pour its blood all around the altar.
9 Of the communion sacrifice he will offer the following as food burnt for Yahweh: the fat, all the tail taken off near the base of the spine, the fat covering the entrails, all the fat on the entrails,
10 both kidneys, the fat on them and on the loins, the mass of fat which he will remove from the liver and kidneys.
11 The priest will then burn this on the altar as food, as food burnt for Yahweh.
12 "If his offering is a goat, he will offer it before Yahweh,
13 he will lay his hand on the victim's head and slaughter it in front of the Tent of Meeting, and the descendants of Aaron will then pour its blood all around the altar.
14 This is what he will then offer of it as food burnt for Yahweh: the fat covering the entrails, all the fat on the entrails,
15 both kidneys, the fat on them and on the loins, the mass of fat which he will remove from the liver and kidneys.
16 The priest will then burn these pieces on the altar as food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh. "All the fat belongs to Yahweh.
17 This is a perpetual law for all your descendants, wherever you may live: that you will not eat either fat or blood." '
