1 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said:
2 'Speak to Aaron and his sons and all the Israelites and say: "This is the order that Yahweh has given:
3 "Any man of the House of Israel who slaughters a bull, lamb or goat, whether inside the camp or outside it,
4 without bringing it to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting to make an offering of it to Yahweh in front of his Dwelling, that man will be answerable for bloodshed; he has shed blood, and that man will be outlawed from his people.
5 The purpose of this is that the Israelites should instead bring their sacrifices, which they would otherwise offer in the countryside, to Yahweh at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting, to the priest, and offer them as communion sacrifices to Yahweh;
6 and the priest will sprinkle the blood on Yahweh's altar at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting and will burn the fat as a smell pleasing to Yahweh.
7 No longer may they offer their sacrifices to the satyrs in whose service they used to prostitute themselves. This is a perpetual law for them and for their descendants."
8 'You will also say to them, "Any member of the House of Israel or any resident alien who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice
9 without bringing it to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting to offer it to Yahweh, will be outlawed from his people.
10 "If any member of the House of Israel or any resident alien consumes blood of any kind, I shall set my face against that individual who consumes blood and shall outlaw him from his people.
11 For the life of the creature is in the blood, and I have given it to you for performing the rite of expiation on the altar for your lives, for blood is what expiates for a life.
12 That is why I told the Israelites: None of you will consume blood, nor will any resident alien consume blood.
13 "Anyone, whether Israelite or resident alien, who hunts and catches game, whether animal or bird, which it is lawful to eat, must pour out its blood and cover it with earth.
14 For the life of every creature is its blood, and I have told the Israelites: You will not consume the blood of any creature, for the life of every creature is its blood, and anyone who consumes it will be outlawed.
15 "Anyone, citizen or alien, who eats an animal that has died a natural death or been savaged, must wash clothing and body, and will be unclean until evening, but will then be clean.
16 But anyone who does not wash clothing and body will bear the consequences of his guilt." '
