1 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said:
2 'Speak to the Israelites and say: (The solemn festivals of Yahweh to which you will summon them are my sacred assemblies.) "These are my solemn festivals:
3 "You will work for six days, but the seventh will be a day of complete rest, a day for the sacred assembly on which you do no work at all. Wherever you live, this is a Sabbath for Yahweh.
4 "These are Yahweh's solemn festivals, the sacred assemblies to which you will summon the Israelites on the appointed day:
5 "The fourteenth day of the first month, at twilight, is the Passover of Yahweh;
6 and the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of Unleavened Bread for Yahweh. For seven days you will eat unleavened bread.
7 On the first day you will hold a sacred assembly; you will do no heavy work.
8 For seven days you will offer food burnt for Yahweh. On the seventh day there will be a sacred assembly; you will do no heavy work." '
9 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said:
10 'Speak to the Israelites and say: "When you enter the country which I am giving you and reap the harvest there, you will bring the priest the first sheaf of your harvest,
11 and he will present it to Yahweh with the gesture of offering, for you to be acceptable. The priest will make this offering on the day after the Sabbath,
12 and on the same day as you make this offering, you will offer Yahweh an unblemished lamb one year old as a burnt offering.
13 The cereal offering for that day will be two-tenths of wheaten flour mixed with oil, as food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh. The libation will be a quarter of a hin of wine.
14 You will eat no bread, roasted ears of wheat or fresh produce before this day, before making the offering to your God. This is a perpetual law for all your descendants, wherever you live.
15 "From the day after the Sabbath, the day on which you bring the sheaf of offering, you will count seven full weeks.
16 You will count fifty days, to the day after the seventh Sabbath, and then you will offer Yahweh a new cereal offering.
17 You will bring bread from your homes to present with the gesture of offering -- two loaves, made of two-tenths of wheaten flour baked with leaven; these are first-fruits for Yahweh.
18 In addition to the bread, you will offer seven unblemished lambs a year old, a young bull and two rams, as a burnt offering to Yahweh with a cereal offering and a libation, as food burnt as a smell pleasing to Yahweh.
19 You will also offer a goat as a sacrifice for sin, and two lambs a year old as communion sacrifice.
20 The priest will present them before Yahweh with the gesture of offering, in addition to the bread of the first-fruits. These, and the two lambs, are holy things for Yahweh, and will revert to the priest.
21 "On the same day, you will hold an assembly; for you this will be a sacred assembly; you will do no heavy work. This is a perpetual law for your descendants, wherever you live.
22 "When you reap the harvest in your country, you will not reap to the very edges of your field, nor will you gather the gleanings of the harvest. You will leave them for the poor and the stranger. I am Yahweh your God." '
23 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said:
24 'Speak to the Israelites and say: "The first day of the seventh month will be a day of rest for you, of remembrance and acclamation, a sacred assembly.
25 You will do no heavy work and you will offer food burnt for Yahweh." '
26 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said:
27 'But the tenth day of this seventh month will be the Day of Expiation. You will hold a sacred assembly. You will fast and offer food burnt for Yahweh.
28 You will do no work that day, for it is the Day of Expiation, on which the rite of expiation will be performed for you before Yahweh your God.
29 Anyone who fails to fast that day will be outlawed from his people;
30 anyone who works that day I shall eliminate from his people.
31 No work will be done -- this is a perpetual law for your descendants wherever you live.
32 It must be a day of complete rest for you. You will fast; on the evening of the ninth day of the month, from this evening till the following evening, you will rest completely.'
33 Yahweh spoke to Moses and said:
34 'Speak to the Israelites and say: "On the fifteenth day of this seventh month there will be the feast of Shelters for Yahweh, lasting for seven days.
35 The first day will be a day of sacred assembly; you will do no heavy work.
36 For seven days you will offer food burnt for Yahweh. On the eighth day you will hold a sacred assembly and you will offer food burnt for Yahweh. It is a day of solemn meeting; you will do no heavy work.
37 "These are Yahweh's solemn festivals to which you will summon the Israelites, the sacred assemblies for the purpose of offering food burnt for Yahweh, consisting of burnt offerings, cereal offerings, sacrifices and libations, each on its appropriate day,
38 besides Yahweh's Sabbaths, and your presents and all your votive and voluntary gifts that you make to Yahweh.
39 "But on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the produce of the land, you will celebrate the feast of Yahweh for seven days. The first and eighth days will be days of rest.
40 On the first day you will take choice fruit, palm branches, boughs of leafy trees and flowering shrubs from the river bank, and for seven days enjoy yourselves before Yahweh your God.
41 You will celebrate a feast for Yahweh in this way for seven days every year. This is a perpetual law for your descendants. "You will keep this feast in the seventh month.
42 For seven days you will live in shelters: all the citizens of Israel will live in shelters,
43 so that your descendants may know that I made the Israelites live in shelters when I brought them out of Egypt, I, Yahweh your God." '
44 Moses then promulgated Yahweh's solemn festivals to the Israelites.
