1 Chronicles ⌄

1 Adam, Seth, Enosh,
2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared,
3 Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,
4 Noah, Shem, Ham and Japheth.
5 Sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, the Medes, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, Tiras.
6 Sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, Togarmah.
7 Sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittim, the Dananites.
8 Sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put, Canaan.
9 Sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raama, Sabeteca. Sons of Raamah: Sheba, Dedan.
10 Cush fathered Nimrod, the first mighty warrior on earth.
11 Mizraim fathered the people of Lud, of Anam, of Lehab, of Naphtuh,
12 of Pathros, Casluh and Caphtor, from which the Philistines came.
13 Canaan fathered Sidon, his first-born, then Heth,
14 and the Jebusites, the Amorites, Girgashites,
15 Hivites, Arkites, Sinites,
16 Arvadites, Zemarites, Hamathites.
17 Sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, Aram. Sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether and Meshech.
18 Arpachshad fathered Shelah, and Shelah fathered Eber.
19 To Eber were born two sons; the first was called Peleg, because it was in his time that the earth was divided into districts, and his brother was called Joktan.
20 Joktan fathered Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
21 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
22 Ebal, Abimael, Sheba,
23 Ophir, Havilah, Jobab; all these are sons of Joktan.
24 Arpachshad, Shelah,
25 Eber, Peleg, Reu,
26 Serug, Nahor, Terah,
27 Abram, that is, Abraham.
28 Sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.
29 These are their descendants: The first-born of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
30 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hada, Tema,
31 Jetur, Naphish and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
32 Sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she gave birth to Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. Sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.
33 Sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, Eldaah. All these are sons of Keturah.
34 Abraham fathered Isaac. Sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel.
35 Sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam and Korah.
36 Sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, Amalek.
37 Sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, Mizzah.
38 Sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, Dishan.
39 Sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam. Sister of Lotan: Timma.
40 Sons of Shobal: Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, Onam. Sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.
41 Son of Anah: Dishon. Sons of Dishon: Hamran, Eshban, Ithran, Cheran.
42 Sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, Jaakan. Sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
43 These are the kings who ruled in Edom before an Israelite king ruled: Bela son of Beor; his city was called Dinhabah.
44 Bela died and Jobab son of Zerah, from Bozrah, succeeded.
45 Jobab died and Husham from the territory of the Temanites succeeded.
46 Husham died and Hada son of Bedad succeeded; he defeated the Midianites in Moab, and his city was called Avith.
47 Hadad died and Samlah of Masrekah succeeded.
48 Samlah died and Shaul of Rehoboth-ha-Nahar succeeded.
49 Shaul died and Baal-Hanan son of Achbor succeeded.
50 Baal-Hanan died and Hadad succeeded. His city was called Pai; his wife's name was Mehetabel daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab.
51 Hadad died, and then there were chiefs in Edom: Chief Timna, Chief Aliah, Chief Jetheth,
52 Chief Oholibamah, Chief Elah, Chief Pinon,
53 Chief Kenaz, Chief Teman, Chief Mibzar,
54 Chief Magdiel, Chief Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom.
