1 Chronicles ⌄

1 These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun.
2 Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
3 Sons of Judah: Er, Onan and Shelah. These three were born to him by Bath-shua the Canaanite woman. Er, Judah's first-born, displeased Yahweh who put him to death.
4 Tamar, Judah's daughter-in-law, bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
5 Sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
6 Sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol and Dara, five in all.
7 Sons of Carmi: Achar, who brought trouble on Israel by being unfaithful to the curse of destruction.
8 Sons of Ethan: Azariah.
9 Sons of Hezron: there were born to him Jerahmeel, Ram, Chelubai.
10 Ram fathered Amminadab, Amminadab fathered Nahshon chief of the sons of Judah,
11 Nahshon fathered Salma, Salma fathered Boaz.
12 Boaz fathered Obed, Obed fathered Jesse.
13 Jesse fathered Eliab, his first-born, Abinadab second, Shimea third,
14 Nethanel fourth, Raddai fifth,
15 Ozem sixth, David seventh.
16 Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab and Asahel: three.
17 Abigail gave birth to Amasa; father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
18 Caleb son of Hezron fathered Jerioth by Azubah his wife; these are her sons: Jesher, Shobab and Ardon.
19 Azubah died, and Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur.
20 Hur fathered Uri, Uri fathered Bezalel.
21 Afterwards, Hezron married the daughter of Machir, father of Gilead; he married her when he was sixty years old and she bore him Segub.
22 Segub fathered Jair who held twenty-three towns in the territory of Gilead.
23 From them, however, Geshur and Aram took the Encampments of Jair and Kenath with its dependencies: sixty towns. All these used to belong to the sons of Machir father of Gilead.
24 After Hezron's death, Caleb married Ephrathah, wife of Hezron his father, who bore him Ashhur father of Tekoa.
25 Jerahmeel, Hezron's eldest son, fathered Hezron, his first-born, Ram, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, Ahijah.
26 Jerahmeel had another wife called Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
27 Sons of Ram, Jerahmeel's first-born: Maaz, Jamin and Eker.
28 Sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. Sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
29 Abishur's wife was called Abihail; she bore him Ahban and Molid.
30 Sons of Nadab: Seled and Ephraim. Seled died leaving no son.
31 Son of Ephraim: Ishi; son of Ishi: Sheshan; son of Sheshan: Ahlai.
32 Sons of Jada, Shammai's brother: Jether and Jonathan. Jether died leaving no sons.
33 Sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel.
34 Sheshan had no sons, only daughters. He had an Egyptian slave Jarha
35 to whom Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage. She bore him Attai.
36 Attai fathered Nathan, Nathan fathered Zabad,
37 Zabad fathered Ephlal, Ephlal fathered Obed,
38 Obed fathered Jehu, Jehu fathered Azariah,
39 Azariah fathered Helez, Helez fathered Eleasah,
40 Eleasah fathered Sismai, Sismai fathered Shallum,
41 Shallum fathered Jekamiah, Jekamiah fathered Elishama.
42 Sons of Caleb, Jerahmeel's brother: Mesha, his first-born, who fathered Ziph. His son was Mareshah, father of Hebron.
43 Sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem and Shema.
44 Shema fathered Raham, father of Jorkeam. Rekem fathered Shammai.
45 Shammai's son was Maon, and Maon fathered Beth-Zur.
46 Ephah, Caleb's concubine, gave birth to Haran, Moza and Gazez. Haran fathered Gazez.
47 Sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah and Shaaph.
48 Maacah, Caleb's concubine, gave birth to Sheber and Tirhanah.
49 She gave birth to Shaaph, who fathered Madmannah, and Sheva, who fathered Machbenah and Gibea. The daughter of Caleb was Achsah.
50 These were the sons of Caleb. Sons of Hur, the first-born of Ephrathah: Shobal fathered Kiriath-Jearim;
51 Salma fathered Bethlehem; Hareph fathered Beth-Gader.
52 Shobal, father of Kiriath-Jearim, had sons: Haroeh, that is, half of the Manahathites,
53 and the clans of Kiriath-Jearim: the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites and Mishraites. Their descendants are the people of Zorah and Eshtaol.
54 Sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth Beth-Joab, half of the Manahathites, the Zorathites,
55 the Sophrite clans living at Jabez, the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, the Sucathites. They were the Kenites descended from Hammath, father of the House of Rechab.
