1 Chronicles ⌄

1 Sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath and Merari.
2 These are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
3 Sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, Uzziel.
4 Sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the levitical clans according to their father.
5 Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
6 Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.
7 Sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
8 Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son.
9 Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, Shaul his son.
10 Sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth.
11 Elkanah his son, Zophai his son, Nahath his son,
12 Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
13 Sons of Elkanah: Samuel his first-born, the second Abijah.
14 Sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son,
15 Shimei his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.
16 These are the men whom David nominated to lead the singing in the Temple of Yahweh after the ark had come to rest there.
17 They were responsible for the singing before the Dwelling, the Tent of Meeting, until Solomon had built the Temple of Yahweh in Jerusalem and then continued their customary duties.
18 These were the persons in office, with their sons: Of the sons of Kohath: Heman the singer, son of Joel, son of Samuel,
19 son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah,
20 son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai,
21 son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah,
22 son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah,
23 son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel.
24 His brother Asaph stood on his right: Asaph son of Berechiah, son of Shimea,
25 son of Michael, son of Baaseiah, son of Malchijah,
26 son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adaiah,
27 son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shimei,
28 son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi.
29 On the left, the sons of Merari: Ethan son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch,
30 son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah,
31 son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shemer,
32 son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi.
33 Their brother Levites were dedicated for all the other duties of the Dwelling, the Temple of God,
34 but Aaron and his sons burned the offerings on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense; they were entirely responsible for the most holy things and for the ritual of expiation for Israel, in accordance with all that Moses, servant of God, had commanded.
35 These were the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
36 Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
37 Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
38 Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
39 These were their places of settlement within their prescribed territory: The sons of Aaron of the Kohathite clan -- for to these the first lot fell-
40 were given Hebron in the territory of Judah with its surrounding pasture lands.
41 But the open country of the town and its dependencies were given to Caleb son of Jephunneh.
42 The sons of Aaron were also given the cities of refuge, Hebron, Libnah with its pasture lands, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its pasture lands.
43 Hilen with its pasture lands, Debir with its pasture lands,
44 Ashan with its pasture lands and Beth-Shemesh with its pasture lands;
45 and, from the tribe of Benjamin, Geba with its pasture lands, Alemeth with its pasture lands and Anathoth with its pasture lands. In all, the towns distributed among their clans numbered thirteen.
46 The remaining sons of Kohath were allotted ten towns from the clans of the tribe, that is, from the half-tribe of Manasseh.
47 The sons of Gershom and their clans were allotted thirteen towns from the tribe of Issachar, from the tribe of Asher, from the tribe of Naphtali and from the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan.
48 The sons of Merari and their clans were allotted twelve towns from the tribe of Reuben, from the tribe of Gad and from the tribe of Zebulun.
49 The Israelites gave these towns with their pasture lands to the Levites.
50 From the tribe of the sons of Judah, from the tribe of the sons of Simeon and from the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, they also allotted them those towns to which they gave their names.
51 Towns from the tribe of Ephraim were also assigned to the territory of some clans of the sons of Kohath.
52 They were given the cities of refuge: Shechem in the highlands of Ephraim with its pasture lands, Gezer and its pasture lands,
53 Jokmeam with its pasture lands, Beth-Horon with its pasture lands,
54 Aijalon with its pasture lands and Gath-Rimmon with its pasture lands
55 and from the half-tribe of Manasseh, Aner with its pasture lands and Bileam with its pasture lands. So much was given to the remaining families of the sons of Kohath.
56 From the half-tribe of Manasseh, the sons of Gershom according to family were given Golan in Bashan with its pasture lands and Ashtaroth with its pasture lands;
57 from the tribe of Issachar, Kedesh with its pasture lands, Daberath with its pasture lands,
58 Ramoth with its pasture lands and Anem with its pasture lands;
59 from the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its pasture lands, Abdon with its pasture lands.
60 Hukok with its pasture lands and Rehob with its pasture lands;
61 from the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its pasture lands, Hammon with its pasture lands and Kiriataim with its pasture lands.
62 To the remainder of the sons of Merari: from the tribe of Zebulun, Rimmon with its pasture lands and Tabor with its pasture lands;
63 in Transjordan, near Jericho, east of the Jordan, from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the desert with its pasture lands, Jahzah with its pasture lands,
64 Kedemoth with its pasture lands and Mephaath with its pasture lands;
65 from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead with its pasture lands, Mahanaim with its pasture lands,
66 Heshbon with its pasture lands and Jazer with its pasture lands.
