1 Chronicles ⌄

1 For the sons of Issachar: Tola, Puah, Jashub, Shimron: four.
2 Sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, Shemuel, heads of their families of Tola. In the time of David, these numbered twenty-two thousand six hundred stout fighting men, grouped according to their kinship.
3 Sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah. Sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel, Isshiah. In all five chiefs,
4 responsible for fighting companies amounting to thirty-six thousand troops, according to relationship and family, for they had many women and children.
5 They had kinsmen belonging to all the clans of Issachar, eighty-seven thousand stout fighting men, all belonging to one related group.
6 Sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, Jediael: three.
7 Sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth and Iri: five, chiefs of families and warriors. Their official genealogy included twenty-two thousand and thirty-four members.
8 Sons of Becher: Zemirah, Joash, Eliezar, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, Alemeth, all these were the sons of Becher.
9 The official genealogy of the descendants of the chiefs of their families included twenty thousand two hundred warriors.
10 Sons of Jediael: Bilhan. Sons of Bilhan: Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish, Ahishahar.
11 All these sons of Jediael, became heads of families, stout fighting men, numbering seventeen thousand two hundred men fit for active service.
12 Shuppim and Huppim. Son of Ir: Hushim; his son: Aher.
13 Sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, Shallum. These were the sons of Bilhah.
14 Sons of Manasseh: Asriel, born of his Aramaean concubine. She gave birth to Machir, father of Gilead.
15 Machir took a wife for Huppim and Shuppim. His sister's name was Maacah. The name of the second son was Zelophehad. Zelophehad had daughters.
16 Maacah the wife of Machir gave birth to a son whom she called Peresh. His brother was called Sheresh and his sons Ulam and Rakem.
17 Sons of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead son of Machir, son of Manasseh.
18 His sister Hammoleketh gave birth to Ishod, Abiezer and Mahlah.
19 Shemida had sons: Ahian, Shechem, Likhi and Aniam.
20 Sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son,
21 Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son and Ezer and Elead whom the men of Gath, natives of the country, killed when they came down to raid their cattle.
22 Their father Ephraim mourned for a long time and his brothers came to comfort him.
23 He had intercourse with his wife, who conceived and gave birth to a son whom he called Beriah because his house was in misfortune.
24 He had a daughter, Sheerah, who built Upper and Lower Beth-Horon and Uzzen-Sheerah.
25 Rephah was his son, Shuthelah his son, Tahan his son,
26 Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
27 Nun his son, Joshua his son.
28 They had lands and settlements in Bethel and its dependencies from Naaran on the east to Gezer and its dependencies on the west, as well as Shechem and its dependencies as far as Ayyah and its dependencies.
29 Beth-Shean with its dependencies, Taanach and its dependencies, Megiddo and its dependencies and Dor with its dependencies were in the hands of the sons of Manasseh. There lived the sons of Joseph son of Israel.
30 Sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah; their sister Serah.
31 Sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel. He fathered Birzaith.
32 Heber fathered Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham and their sister Shua.
33 Sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal and Ashvath. These were the sons of Japhlet.
34 Sons of Shomer his brother: Rohgah, Hubbah and Aram.
35 Sons of Helem his brother: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh and Amal.
36 Sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri and Imrah.
37 Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran and Beerah.
38 Sons of Ithran: Jephunneh, Pispa, Ara.
39 Sons of Ulla: Arah, Hanniel, Rizia.
40 All these were the sons of Asher, heads of families, picked men, warriors and senior princes. They were registered in fighting companies to the number of twenty-six thousand men.
