1 Chronicles ⌄

1 Benjamin was father of Bela, his first-born, Ashbel second, Ahiram third,
2 Nohah fourth, Rapha fifth.
3 Bela had sons: Addar, Gera father of Ehud,
4 Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,
5 Gera, Shephuphan and Huram.
6 These are the sons of Ehud. They were heads of families of the inhabitants of Geba and led them into exile at Manahath:
7 Naaman, Ahijah and Gera. It was he who led them into exile; he became the father of Uzza and Ahihud.
8 Shaharaim had children in the Plains of Moab after he had dismissed his wives, Hushim and Baara.
9 By his new wife he had sons: Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,
10 Jeuz, Sachia, Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of families.
11 By Hushim he had sons: Abitub and Elpaal.
12 The sons of Elpaal were Eber, Misham and Shemed, who built Ono and Lud and its dependencies.
13 Beriah and Shema were the chiefs of the families who lived at Aijalon; they routed the inhabitants of Gath.
14 His brother was Shashak. Jeremoth,
15 Zebadiah, Arad, Eder,
16 Michael, Ishpah, Joha were the sons of Beriah.
17 Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Haber,
18 Ishmerai, Izliah, Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
19 Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi,
20 Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel,
21 Adaiah, Beraiah, Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
22 Ishpan, Eber, Eliel,
23 Abdon, Zichri, Hanan,
24 Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah,
25 Iphdeiah, Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
26 Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah,
27 Jaareshaiah, Elijah, Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.
28 These were chiefs of families according to their relationship. They lived in Jerusalem.
29 At Gibeon lived Jeiel the father of Gibeon, whose wife was called Maacah.
30 His first-born son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab,
31 Gedor, Ahio, Zecher
32 and Mikloth. Mikloth fathered Shimeah. But they, unlike their brothers, lived at Jerusalem with their brothers.
33 Ner fathered Kish, Kish fathered Saul, Saul fathered Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab and Eshbaal.
34 Son of Jonathan: Meribbaal. Meribbaal fathered Micah.
35 Sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, Ahaz.
36 Ahaz fathered Jehoaddah, Jehoaddah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri. Zimri fathered Moza,
37 Moza fathered Binea, Raphah his son, Eleasah his son and Azel his son.
38 Azel had six sons, whose names were these: Azrikam, his first-born, then Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, Hanan. All these were sons of Azel.
39 Sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam, his first-born, Jeush second, Eliphelet third.
40 The sons of Ulam were warriors-archers. They had as many as a hundred and fifty sons and grandsons. All these belonged to the sons of Benjamin.
