1 Chronicles ⌄

1 All Israel then rallied to David at Hebron and said, 'Look, we are your own flesh and bone.
2 In days past when Saul was king, it was you who led Israel on its campaigns, and Yahweh your God promised you, "You are to shepherd my people Israel and be leader of my people Israel." '
3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David made a pact with them in Yahweh's presence at Hebron, and they anointed David as king of Israel, in accordance with the word of Yahweh through Samuel.
4 David and all Israel then marched on Jerusalem (that is to say, Jebus); the inhabitants of the territory were the Jebusites.
5 The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, 'You will not get in here.' But David captured the citadel of Zion, that is, the City of David.
6 David said, 'The first man to kill a Jebusite will be made army commander and chief.' Joab son of Zeruiah was the first man to go up, and was made commander of the army.
7 David went to live in the citadel, and that is how it came to be called the City of David.
8 He then built a wall round the city, all round, beginning from the Millo, and Joab restored the rest of the city.
9 Thus David grew stronger and stronger, for Yahweh Sabaoth was with him.
10 These are David's principal champions who joined forces with him in his kingdom, with all Israel, to make him king in accordance with the word of Yahweh concerning Israel.
11 This is the roll of David's champions: Jashobeam son of Hachmoni, head of the Three; he it was who brandished his spear over three hundred men whom he had killed at one time.
12 Next, there was Eleazar son of Dodo, the Ahohite, one of the three champions.
13 He was with David at Pas-Dammim when the Philistines mustered for battle there. There was a field full of barley there; and the people fled from the Philistines.
14 And they took their stand in the middle of the field, held it and cut down the Philistines; and Yahweh brought about a great victory.
15 Three members of the Thirty went down to David at the rock near the Cave of Adullam while a company of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of the Rephaim.
16 David was then in the stronghold and there was a Philistine garrison in Bethlehem.
17 Longingly, David said, 'If only someone would fetch me a drink of water from the well that stands by the gate at Bethlehem!'
18 At this the three champions, forcing their way through the Philistine camp, drew water from the well that stands by the gate of Bethlehem and, bringing it away, presented it to David. David, however, would not drink any of it, but poured it out as a libation to Yahweh.
19 'God preserve me', he said, 'from doing such a thing! Am I to drink these men's blood? For at the risk of their lives they brought it.' And so he would not drink. Such were the deeds of the three champions.
20 Abishai, brother of Joab, was leader of the Thirty. He it was who brandished his spear over three hundred men whom he had killed, winning himself a name among the Thirty.
21 He was a most illustrious member of the Thirty and became their captain, but he was not equal to the Three.
22 Benaiah son of Jehoiada from Kabzeel was the hero of many exploits; he it was who slaughtered two formidable Moabites and, one snowy day, climbed down and slaughtered the lion in the storage-well.
23 He also slaughtered an Egyptian, a man who was seven and a half feet tall. The Egyptian was armed with a spear in his hand like a weaver's beam, but he took him on with a staff, tore the spear from the Egyptian's hand and killed the man with it.
24 Such were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada, winning him a name among the thirty champions.
25 He was a most illustrious member of the Thirty, but he was not equal to the Three. David put him in command of his bodyguard.
26 The military champions were: Asahel brother of Joab; Elhanan son of Dodo, of Bethlehem;
27 Shammoth of Haror; Helez the Pelonite;
28 Ira son of Ikkesh, of Tekoa; Abiezer of Anathoth;
29 Sibbecai of Hushah; Ilai of Ahoh;
30 Maharai of Netophah; Heled son of Baanah, of Netophah.
31 Ithai son of Ribai, of Gibeah in Benjamin. Benaiah of Pirathon;
32 Hurai of the Torrents of Gaash; Abiel of Beth-ha-Arabah;
33 Azmaveth of Bahurim; Eliahba of Shaalbon;
34 the sons of Hashem of Gizon; Jonathan son of Shagee, of Harar;
35 Ahiam son of Sachar, of Harar; Eliphelet son of Ur;
36 Hepher of Mecherah; Ahijah the Pelonite;
37 Hezro of Carmel; Naarai son of Ezbai;
38 Joel brother of Nathan; Mibhar son of Hagri;
39 Zelek the Ammonite; Naharai of Beeroth, armour-bearer to Joab son of Zeruiah;
40 Ira of Jattir; Gareb of Jattir;
41 Uriah the Hittite; Zabad son of Ahlai;
42 Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, chief of the Reubenites and commander of the Thirty;
43 Hanan son of Maacah; Joshaphat the Mithnite;
44 Uzzia of Ashteroth; Shama and Jeiel sons of Hotham of Aroer;
45 Jediael son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite;
46 Eliel the Mahavite; Jeribai and Joshaviah sons of Elnaam; Ithmah the Moabite;
47 Eliel, Obed, and Jaasiel of Zobah.
