1 Chronicles ⌄

1 They brought the ark of God in and put it inside the tent which David had erected for it, and brought burnt offerings and made communion sacrifices in God's presence.
2 And when David had finished making burnt offerings and communion sacrifices, he blessed the people in the name of Yahweh.
3 To all the Israelites, both men and women, to each, he then distributed a loaf of bread, a portion of meat and a raisin cake.
4 He appointed some of the Levites as ministers before the ark of Yahweh, to extol, glorify and praise Yahweh, God of Israel;
5 first Asaph, second Zechariah, then Uzziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel, who played the lyre and harp, while Asaph played the cymbals.
6 The priests Benaiah and Jahaziel continually blew the trumpet before the ark of the covenant of God.
7 On that day, David was the first to assign to Asaph and his kinsmen the giving of thanks to Yahweh:
8 Give thanks to Yahweh, call his name aloud, proclaim his deeds to the peoples.
9 Chant to him, play to him, sing about all his wonders!
10 Take pride in his holy name, let your heart rejoice, you seekers of Yahweh!
11 Seek out Yahweh, seek his strength, continually seek out his presence!
12 Remember what wonders he has done, what miracles, what rulings he has given,
13 you offspring of Israel his servant, you children of Jacob his chosen one!
14 For he is Yahweh our God, his authority extends throughout the world.
15 For ever remember his covenant, the pact imposed for a thousand generations,
16 which he concluded with Abraham, which was sworn by him to Isaac,
17 since he confirmed it as a law for Jacob, as an eternal covenant for Israel,
18 saying, 'I will give you the country; Canaan is the measure of your inheritance,
19 'though you are few in number, only a few strangers there!'
20 As they wandered from nation to nation, from this kingdom to that people,
21 he would not let anyone oppress them and on their account he admonished kings,
22 'You are not to touch my anointed ones, my prophets are not to be harmed!'
23 Sing to Yahweh, all the earth, day after day proclaim his salvation!
24 Declare his glory among the nations, his marvels to every people!
25 Great is Yahweh, worthy of all praise, more awesome than any of the gods.
26 Nothingness, all the gods of the nations. Yahweh it was who made the heavens,
27 in his presence are splendour and majesty, in his sanctuary strength and joy.
28 Give Yahweh his due, families of peoples, give Yahweh his due of glory and power,
29 give Yahweh the glory due to his name! Bring an offering and enter his courts, bow down to Yahweh in his sacred court,
30 tremble before him, all the earth! The world is firm, it cannot be moved,
31 let the heavens rejoice and earth be glad! Say among the nations, 'Yahweh is king!'
32 Let the sea thunder and all it holds, the countryside exult and everything that is in it,
33 and all the trees of the forest cry out for joy at Yahweh's approach, for he is coming to judge the earth.
34 Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, for his faithful love lasts for ever!
35 Say, 'Save us, God of our salvation, gather us together and free us from the nations, so that we may give thanks to your holy name -- to be extolled whenever you are praised!'
36 Blessed be Yahweh, God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! To which all the people said, 'Amen, Alleluia!'
37 There before the ark of the covenant of Yahweh David left Asaph and his kinsmen to maintain a permanent ministry before the ark as each day's ritual required,
38 and also Obed-Edom with his sixty-eight kinsmen. Obed-Edom son of Jeduthun, and Hosah were gatekeepers.
39 Zadok the priest and the priests, his kinsmen, he left before the dwelling of Yahweh on the high place at Gibeon
40 to bring burnt offerings to Yahweh unfailingly, morning and evening, on the altar of burnt offering, and to carry out all that is written in the Law of Yahweh laid down for Israel.
41 With them were Heman and Jeduthun and the rest of those who were chosen and assigned by name to give thanks to Yahweh, 'for his faithful love lasts for ever'.
42 With them were Heman and Jeduthun to play trumpets and cymbals, as well as instruments for accompanying sacred song. The sons of Jeduthun were in charge of the gates.
43 Then all the people went back to their homes, and David went back to bless his household.
