1 Chronicles ⌄

1 After this David defeated the Philistines and subdued them. From the grip of the Philistines he wrested Gath and its dependencies.
2 He also defeated the Moabites; the Moabites became David's subjects and paid him tribute.
3 David also defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah, which lies in the direction of Hamath, when the latter mounted an expedition to assert his rule on the River Euphrates.
4 David captured one thousand chariots, seven thousand charioteers and twenty thousand foot soldiers from him; David hamstrung all the chariot teams, keeping only a hundred of them.
5 The Aramaeans of Damascus came to the help of Hadadezer king of Zobah, but David killed twenty-two thousand of the Aramaeans.
6 David then imposed governors in Aram of Damascus, and the Aramaeans became David's subjects and paid him tribute. Wherever David went, Yahweh gave him victory.
7 David took the golden shields carried by Hadadezer's guards and brought them to Jerusalem.
8 From Tibhath and from Cun, towns belonging to Hadadezer, David captured a great quantity of bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze Sea, the pillars and the bronze implements.
9 When Tou king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the entire army of Hadadezer king of Zobah,
10 he sent his son Hadoram to King David to greet him and to congratulate him on having made war on Hadadezer and on having defeated him, since Hadadezer was at war with Tou. He also sent all sorts of objects made of gold, silver and bronze,
11 which King David also consecrated to Yahweh, as well as the silver and gold which he had levied from all the nations, from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines and Amalek.
12 Abishai son of Zeruiah defeated the Edomites in the Valley of Salt -- eighteen thousand of them.
13 He stationed garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's subjects. Wherever David went, Yahweh gave him victory.
14 David ruled over all Israel, administering law and justice to all his people.
15 Joab son of Zeruiah was in command of the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was herald;
16 Zadok son of Ahitub and Abiathar son of Ahimelech were priests; Shusha was secretary;
17 Benaiah son of Jehoiada was in command of the Cherethites and Pelethites; David's sons took first place after the king.
