1 Chronicles ⌄

1 Orders of the sons of Aaron: Sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, Ithamar.
2 Nadab and Abihu died in their father's lifetime leaving no children, so Eleazar and Ithamar filled the office of priest.
3 With Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, David allocated them according to the classification of their duties.
4 Since the sons of Eleazar were found to have more headmen than the sons of Ithamar, they allocated sixteen heads of families to the sons of Eleazar and eight heads of families to the sons of Ithamar.
5 They allocated them by lot, both alike, there being religious officials and officials of God among the sons of Eleazar, as among the sons of Ithamar.
6 The levitical scribe Shemaiah son of Nethanel, recorded them in the presence of the king, the leaders, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech son of Abiathar and the heads of the priestly and levitical families, so that two families were selected for Eleazar for each one selected for Ithamar.
7 The first lot fell to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
8 the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
9 the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
10 the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
11 the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
12 the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
13 the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Ishbaal,
14 the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
15 the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez,
16 the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel,
17 the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul,
18 the twenty- third to Delaiah and the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.
19 These were their classifications for their duties when they entered the House of Yahweh in accordance with their prescriptions laid down by Aaron their ancestor as Yahweh, God of Israel, had commanded him.
20 As regards the rest of the sons of Levi: Of the sons of Amram: Shubael. Of the sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah.
21 As regards Rehabiah, of the sons of Rehabiah: Isshiah, the first one.
22 Of the sons of Izhar: Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth: Jahath.
23 Of the sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
24 The son of Uzziel was Micah; of the sons of Micah: Shamir.
25 The brother of Micah was Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah.
26 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi; of his sons: Jaaziah his son.
27 The sons of Merari by his son Jaaziah were Shoham, Zaccur and Ibri.
28 Of Mahli, there was Eleazar who had no sons,
29 and Kish; and of the sons of Kish: Jerahmeel.
30 The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth. These were the Levites according to families.
31 Like their kinsmen, the sons of Aaron, these heads of families, senior and junior alike, also drew lots in the presence of King David, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the priestly and levitical families.
