1 Chronicles ⌄

1 For the liturgy, David and the religious officials selected the sons of Asaph, of Heman and of Jeduthun, who were to prophesy to the accompaniment of harps, lyres and cymbals. The list of ministrants for this service was as follows:
2 Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, Asharelah; the sons of Asaph were under the direction of Asaph who prophesied at the king's direction.
3 Of Jeduthun there were the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Hashabiah and Mattithiah, six, under the direction of their father Jeduthun who, with the harp, prophesied when thanks and praise were to be given to Yahweh.
4 Of Heman there were the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.
5 All these were sons of Heman, the king's seer; at God's word they blew the horn. God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
6 Under the king's direction all these had the duty of singing to the accompaniment of cymbal, lyre and harp for the liturgy of the house of God under the direction of their fathers. Asaph, Jeduthun and Heman,
7 trained in the songs of Yahweh, with their brothers, numbered two hundred and eighty-eight, all expert.
8 Junior and senior, master and pupil alike, they drew lots for their term of duty.
9 The first to whom the lot fell was the Asaphite, Joseph. The second was Gedaliah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
10 The third was Zaccur, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
11 The fourth was Izri, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
12 The fifth was Nethaniah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
13 The sixth was Bukkiah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
14 The seventh was Jesharelah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
15 The eighth was Jeshaiah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
16 The ninth was Mattaniah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
17 The tenth was Shimei, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
18 The eleventh was Azarel, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
19 The twelfth was Hashabiah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
20 The thirteenth was Shubael, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
21 The fourteenth was Mattithiah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
22 The fifteenth was Jeremoth, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
23 The sixteenth was Hananiah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
24 The seventeenth was Joshbekashah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
25 The eighteenth was Hanani, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
26 The nineteenth was Mallothi, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
27 The twentieth was Eliathah, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
28 The twenty-first was Hothir, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
29 The twenty-second was Giddalti, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
30 The twenty-third was Mahazioth, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
31 The twenty-fourth was Romamti-Ezer, who with his sons and brothers made twelve.
