1 Chronicles ⌄

1 As regards the orders of the gatekeepers: Of the Korahites there was Meshelemiah son of Kore, one of the sons of Ebiasaph,
2 and Meshelemiah's sons: Zechariah the first-born, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.
4 Obed-Edom's sons were: Shemaiah the first-born, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth,
5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth; God had indeed blessed him.
6 His son Shemaiah also had sons who wielded authority in their family, because they were men of outstanding quality.
7 The sons of Shemaiah were: Othni, Rephael, Obed and Elzabad, whose brothers Elihu and Semachiah were outstanding men.
8 All these were sons of Obed-Edom, who with their sons and brothers were men of standing, well fitted for their task. Obed-Edom had sixty-two.
9 Meshelemiah had eighteen outstanding sons and brothers.
10 Hosah, one of the sons of Merari, had sons: Shimri was the first, for although he was not the first-born his father had made him the chief.
11 Hilkiah was the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: Hosah had thirteen sons and brothers in all.
12 These orders of gatekeepers, allocated according to their headmen, had duties, just like their brothers, of serving in the house of Yahweh.
13 Similarly, they drew lots for each gate, whether their families were large or small.
14 For the eastern one, the lot fell to Shelemiah; and when they drew lots for Zechariah his son, a shrewd counsellor, his lot came out for the north.
15 To Obed-Edom went the south, and to his sons the storehouses.
16 To Shuppim and Hosah went the west with the Gate of the Felled Tree-trunk on the upper road. The corresponding guards were as follows:
17 for the east gate, six per day; for the north gate, four per day; for the south gate, four per day; for the storehouses, two each;
18 for the Parbar at the west gate, four by the road and two for the Parbar.
19 These were the orders of the gatekeepers of the sons of Korah and the sons of Merari.
20 The Levites, their brothers, who were responsible for the treasures of the house of God and for the treasures of consecrated gifts,
21 were the sons of Ladan and belonged to the Gershonites -- the heads of the families of Ladan were descended from Ladan the Gershonite -- that is to say, the Jehielites.
22 The sons of the Jehielites, Zetham and Joel his brother, were responsible for the treasures of the house of Yahweh.
23 Over the Amramites, Izharites, Hebronites, and Uzzielites
24 was Shebuel son of Gershom, son of Moses, who was governor of the treasures;
25 and his brothers of the line of Eliezer were Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zichri his son and Shelomoth his son.
26 This Shelomoth and his kinsmen were responsible for all the consecrated treasures dedicated by King David, by the heads of families, by the commanders of the thousands and hundreds and by the commanders of the army,
27 who had dedicated a part of the spoils of war to the service of the house of Yahweh,
28 and also for all that Samuel the seer, Saul son of Kish, Abner son of Ner and Joab son of Zeruiah had dedicated. In fact, whatever was dedicated was the responsibility of Shelomoth and his kinsmen.
29 Of the Izharites, Chananiah and his sons were assigned to secular duties for Israel as officials and judges.
30 Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his kinsmen, one thousand seven hundred outstanding men were in charge of Israel west of Jordan in everything pertaining to Yahweh and to the service of the king.
31 Of the Hebronites, Jerijah was the head. In the fortieth year of David's reign research was done on the lineage and relationships of the Hebronites, and men of outstanding quality from among them were found at Jazer in Gilead.
32 There were twenty-seven hundred outstanding men, heads of families, whom King David put in charge of the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh in all matters pertaining to God and the king.
