1 In the ninth year, on the tenth day of the tenth month, the word of Yahweh was addressed to me as follows,
2 'Son of man, write down today's date, yes, today's, for this very day the king of Babylon began his attack on Jerusalem.
3 So pronounce a parable for this tribe of rebels. Say, "The Lord Yahweh says this: Put the pot on the fire; put it on; pour the water in!
4 Now put the cuts of meat all in together, all the best cuts, leg and shoulder. Fill it with the best bones.
5 Take the best of the flock, then heap wood underneath; boil it thoroughly until even the bones are cooked.
6 "For the Lord Yahweh says this: Disaster is in store for the bloody city, for that rusty cooking pot whose rust will not come off! Empty it, bit by bit, not bothering to draw lots;
7 for she is still full of bloodshed, she has put blood on the naked rock; she did not pour it on the ground so as to cover it with dust.
8 To make anger rise, to exact vengeance, I have put her blood on the naked rock, so that it should not be covered:
9 "So, the Lord Yahweh says this: Disaster is in store for the bloody city! I too plan to build a great fire.
10 Heap on the wood, light it, cook the meat, prepare the seasoning let the bones burn!
11 Put the empty pot on the coals to make it hot, until the bronze glows, the filth inside melts and the rust is burnt away!
12 "But all that rust would not come off in the fire.
13 Your filth is infamous. Since I have tried to purge you and you would not let yourself be purged of your filth, so now you will never be purged of your filth until I have sated my anger on you.
14 I, Yahweh, have spoken; this will happen; I shall act and not relent; I shall show no pity, no compassion. You will be judged as your conduct and actions deserve -- declares the Lord Yahweh." '
15 The word of Yahweh was addressed to me as follows,
16 'Son of man, at a blow I am about to deprive you of the delight of your eyes. But you are not to lament, not to weep, not to let your tears run down.
17 Groan in silence, do not go into mourning for the dead, knot your turban round your head, put your sandals on your feet, do not cover your beard, do not eat the usual food.'
18 I told this to the people in the morning, and my wife died in the evening, and the next morning I did as I had been ordered.
19 The people then said to me, 'Will you not explain what meaning these actions have for us?'
20 I replied, 'The word of Yahweh has been addressed to me as follows,
21 "Say to the House of Israel, the Lord Yahweh says this: I am about to profane my sanctuary, the pride of your strength, the delight of your eyes, the joy of your hearts. Your sons and daughters whom you have left behind will fall by the sword.
22 Then you will do as I have done: you will not cover your beards or eat the usual food;
23 you will keep your turbans on your heads and your sandals on your feet; you will not lament or weep but will waste away for your crimes, groaning among yourselves.
24 Thus Ezekiel is a sign for you. You will do exactly what he has done. And when this happens, you will know that I am Lord Yahweh!"
25 'And, son of man, the day that I deprive them of their strength, their crowning joy, the delight of their eyes, the joy of their hearts, their sons and daughters,
26 that day a survivor will bring you the news.
27 That day your mouth will be opened to speak to the survivor; you will speak and no longer be dumb; you will be a sign for them, and they will know that I am Yahweh.'
