1 The word of Yahweh was addressed to me as follows,
2 'Son of man, turn towards the Ammonites and prophesy against them.
3 Say to the Ammonites, "Hear the word of the Lord Yahweh. The Lord Yahweh says this: "Since you gloated over my sanctuary when it was profaned, and over the land of Israel when it was ravaged, and over the House of Judah when it went into exile,
4 I shall let the sons of the East take possession of you; they will pitch their camps inside you, they will make their home in you. They will be the ones to eat your produce and drink your milk.
5 I shall turn Rabbah into a camel yard and the towns of Ammon into sheepfolds. And so you will know that I am Yahweh.
6 "The Lord Yahweh says this: Since you have clapped your hands and danced for joy, full of malicious delight at Israel's fate,
7 my hand will be against you for this; I shall hand you over to be looted by the peoples, obliterate you as a nation and wipe you out as a country. I shall reduce you to nothing, and you will know that I am Yahweh.
8 "The Lord Yahweh says this: "Since Moab and Seir have said: Look at the House of Judah; it is no different from any other nation;
9 very well, I shall expose Moab's heights; its cities will no longer be cities throughout the land -- the jewels of the country, Beth-Jeshimoth, Baal-Meon and Kiriathaim.
10 I shall let the sons of the East and the Ammonites take possession of them, so that they will no longer be remembered by the nations.
11 I shall bring Moab to justice, and they will know that I am Yahweh.
12 "The Lord Yahweh says this: "Since Edom has taken revenge on the House of Judah and committed great crimes in doing so,
13 very well, the Lord Yahweh says this: My hand will be against Edom and denude it of human and animal. I shall lay it waste, from Teman as far as Dedan they will be put to the sword.
14 I shall take vengeance on Edom by means of my people Israel. They will treat Edom as my anger and fury dictate, and they will know this is my vengeance -- declares the Lord Yahweh.
15 "The Lord Yahweh says this, "Since the Philistines have acted in revenge and, motivated by malice, have taken revenge, doing their best to destroy because of their long-standing hatred,
16 very well, the Lord Yahweh says this: My hand will be against the Philistines; I shall exterminate the Cherethites and destroy the rest of the coastal peoples.
17 I shall perform frightful acts of vengeance and inflict furious punishments on them; and they will know that I am Yahweh, when I exact my vengeance on them." '
