1 In the twelfth year, on the first day of the twelfth month, the word of Yahweh was addressed to me as follows,
2 'Son of man, raise a lament for Pharaoh king of Egypt. Say to him: "Young lion of nations, you are destroyed! Once you were like a crocodile in the lagoons; emerging from your rivers, you churned up the water with your trampling and fouled their streams.
3 "The Lord Yahweh says this: I shall throw my net over you in a great concourse of nations; and they will trawl you up in my net. Then I shall leave you high and dry,
4 I shall throw you out into the wilds and make all the birds of heaven settle on you, and glut all the beasts of the earth with you.
5 I shall strew your flesh on your mountains and fill the valleys with your corruption;
6 I shall water the country with what flows from you, with your blood, on the mountainsides, and you will fill the ravines.
7 When I extinguish you I shall cover the skies and darken the stars. I shall cover the sun with clouds and the moon will not give its light.
8 I shall dim every luminary in heaven because of you and cover your country in darkness -declares the Lord Yahweh.
9 "I shall grieve the heart of many peoples when I bring about your destruction among the nations, in countries unknown to you.
10 I shall stun many peoples with shock at your fate; their kings will tremble with horror at your fate, when I brandish my sword before their eyes. The day you fall, each will tremble in terror for his life.
11 For the Lord Yahweh says this: The sword of the king of Babylon will overtake you.
12 I shall make your throngs of subjects fall at the swords of my warriors. They are the most barbarous of nations. They will annihilate the pride of Egypt, and all its throngs will be destroyed.
13 I shall also destroy all its cattle beside the plentiful waters. No human foot will churn them, no animal foot will churn them up again;
14 then I shall let their waters settle and make their rivers glide like oil -- declares the Lord Yahweh.
15 "When I reduce Egypt to a ruin and the country is stripped of its contents, when I strike all those who live there, they will know that I am Yahweh.
16 "Such is the lament which the daughters of the nations will raise. They will raise it over Egypt and all its throng. This is the lament they will raise -- declares the Lord Yahweh." '
17 In the twelfth year, on the fifteenth day of the first month, the word of Yahweh was addressed to me as follows,
18 'Son of man, lament over the throng of Egypt, for down she must go with the daughters of majestic nations to the depths of the underworld with those who sink into oblivion.
19 'Whom do you surpass in beauty? Down with you, make your bed with the uncircumcised,
20 with those who have been slaughtered by the sword. (The sword has been given, it has been drawn.) She and all her throngs have fallen.
21 From the depths of Sheol, the mightiest heroes, her allies, will say to her, "They have come down, they have lain down, uncircumcised, slaughtered by the sword."
22 'Assyria is there and all her hordes, with their graves all round her; all of them slaughtered, fallen by the sword;
23 their graves have been made in the deepest part of the abyss, and her hordes, with their graves all round her; all of them slaughtered, killed by the sword, who once spread terror through the world of the living.
24 'Elam is there and all her throng round her grave, all of them slaughtered, fallen by the sword; they have gone down uncircumcised to the depths of the underworld, who once spread terror throughout the world of the living. They have borne their shame with those who sink into oblivion.
25 Among the slaughtered, they have put a bed for her, among her throng with their tombs round her, all of them uncircumcised, slaughtered by the sword for having spread terror throughout the world of the living. They have borne their shame with those who sink into oblivion. They have been put among the slaughtered. 
26 'Meshech, Tubal are there and all her throng, with their graves round her, all of them uncircumcised, slaughtered by the sword for having spread terror through the world of the living.
27 They do not lie with the heroes who fell long ago, those who went down to Sheol fully armed, who had their swords laid under their heads and their shields put under their bones, since the heroes inspired the world of the living with terror.
28 But you will be broken with the uncircumcised and lie with those slaughtered by the sword.
29 'Edom is there, her kings and all her princes who, despite their valour, have been laid with those slaughtered by the sword. They lie with the uncircumcised, with those who sink into oblivion.
30 'All the princes of the north and all the Sidonians are there, who have gone down with the slaughtered, because of the terror which their power inspired. Ashamed, uncircumcised, they lie among those slaughtered by the sword and bear their shame with those who sink into oblivion.
31 'Pharaoh will see them and take comfort at the sight of all this throng slaughtered by the sword -- Pharaoh and all his throng -- declares the Lord Yahweh.
32 For having spread terror through the world of the living, he will be laid with the uncircumcised, with those slaughtered by the sword, Pharaoh and all his throng -- declares the Lord Yahweh.'
