1 The word of Yahweh was addressed to me as follows,
2 'Son of man, turn towards Mount Seir and prophesy against it.
3 Say to it, "The Lord Yahweh says this: Look, I am against you, Mount Seir; I shall stretch out my hand against you; I shall make you a desolate waste;
4 I shall lay your towns in ruins. You will become a waste and you will know that I am Yahweh.
5 Since, following a long-standing hatred, you betrayed the Israelites to the sword on the day of their distress, on the day when an end came for their guilt,
6 very well, as I live -- declares the Lord Yahweh -- I destine you to bloodshed, and bloodshed will pursue you. I swear it; you have incurred guilt by shedding blood, and bloodshed will pursue you.
7 I shall make Mount Seir a desolate waste and denude it of anyone travelling to and fro.
8 I shall fill its mountains with its slaughtered; on your hills, in your valleys and in all your ravines, those slaughtered by the sword will fall.
9 I shall make you a perpetual waste, your towns will never be inhabited again, and you will know that I am Yahweh.
10 "Since you said: The two nations and the two countries will be mine; we are going to take possession of it, although Yahweh was there,
11 very well, as I live -- declares the Lord Yahweh -- I shall act with the same anger and jealousy as you acted in your hatred for them. I shall make myself known for their sake, when I punish you,
12 and you will know that I, Yahweh, have heard all the blasphemies which you have uttered against the mountains of Israel, such as: They have been laid waste, they have been given to us for us to devour.
13 Great was your insolence towards me, many your speeches against me; I have heard!
14 Lord Yahweh says this: To the joy of the whole world, I shall make you a waste.
15 Since you rejoiced because the heritage of the House of Israel had been laid waste, I shall do the same to you, Mount Seir; and you will become a waste, and so will the whole of Edom; and they will know that I am Yahweh.' "
