1 The word of Yahweh was addressed to me as follows,
2 'Son of man, turn towards Gog, to the country of Magog, towards the paramount prince of Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy against him.
3 Say, "The Lord Yahweh says this: I am against you, Gog, paramount prince of Meshech and Tubal.
4 I shall turn you about, I shall fix hooks in your jaws and bring you out with your entire army, horses and horsemen, all perfectly equipped, a huge array armed with shields and bucklers, and all wielding swords.
5 Persia and Cush and Put are with them, all with buckler and helmet;
6 Gomer and all its troops, Beth-Togarmah in the far north and all its troops, and many nations with you.
7 Be ready, be well prepared, you and all your troops and the others rallying to you, and hold yourself at my service.
8 "Many days will pass before you are given orders; in the final years you will march on this country, whose inhabitants will have been living in confidence, remote from other peoples, since they escaped the sword and were gathered in from various nations, here in the long-deserted mountains of Israel. 
9 Like a storm you will approach, you will advance and cover the country like a cloud, you, all your troops and many nations with you.
10 "The Lord Yahweh says this: That day, a thought will enter your mind and you will form a sinister plan.
11 You will think: I shall attack this undefended country and march on this peaceful nation living secure, all living in towns without walls or bars or gates.
12 You will come to plunder and loot and turn your might against the ruins they live in, against this people gathered back from the nations, these stock-breeders and traders who live at the Navel of the World.
13 Sheba and Dedan, the merchants and all the magnates of Tarshish will ask you: Have you come for plunder? Are you massing your troops with a view to looting? To make off with gold and silver, seize cattle and goods, and come away with unlimited spoil?"
14 'So, son of man, prophesy. Say to Gog, "The Lord Yahweh says this: Is it not true that you will set out at a time when my people Israel is living secure?
15 You will leave your home in the far north, you and many nations with you, a great army of countless troops all mounted.
16 You will invade Israel, my people. You will be like a cloud covering the country. In the final days, I myself shall bring you to attack my country, so that the nations will know who I am, when I display my holiness to them, by means of you, Gog.
17 "The Lord Yahweh says this: It was of you that I spoke in the past through my servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days, foretelling your invasion.
18 The day Gog attacks the land of Israel -- declares the Lord Yahweh -- my furious wrath will boil up. In my anger,
19 in my jealousy, in the heat of my fury I say it: That day, I swear, there will be such a huge earthquake in the land of Israel,
20 that the fish in the sea and the birds of heaven, the wild beasts, all the reptiles creeping along the ground, and all people on the surface of the earth will quake before me. Mountains will fall, cliffs crumble, all walls collapse, and
21 I shall summon every kind of sword against him -- declares the Lord Yahweh -- and each will turn his sword against his comrade.
22 I shall punish him with plague and bloodshed, and rain down torrential rain, hailstones, fire and brimstone on him, on his troops and on the many nations with him.
23 I shall display my greatness and holiness and bring the many nations to acknowledge me; and they will know that I am Yahweh." '
