1 'So, son of man, prophesy against Gog. Say, "The Lord Yahweh says this: Look, I am against you, Gog, paramount prince of Meshech and Tubal.
2 I shall turn you about, lead you on, and bring you from the farthest north against the mountains of Israel.
3 I shall break the bow in your left hand and dash the arrows out of your right.
4 You will fall on the mountains of Israel, you, all your troops and the nations with you. I shall make you food for every kind of bird of prey and wild animals.
5 You will fall in the wilds, for I have spoken -- declares the Lord Yahweh.
6 I shall send down fire on Magog and on those living undisturbed in the islands, and they will know that I am Yahweh.
7 I shall see that my holy name is acknowledged by my people Israel, and no longer allow my holy name to be profaned; and the nations will know that I am Yahweh, holy in Israel.
8 "All this is to happen, all this is to take place -- declares the Lord Yahweh. This is the day I predicted.
9 "The inhabitants of the towns of Israel will go out and set fire to and burn the weapons, the shields and bucklers, bows and arrows, javelins and spears. They will burn these for seven years
10 and not fetch wood from the countryside or cut it in the forests, since they will be burning the weapons. They will plunder those who plundered them, and despoil those who despoiled them -- declares the Lord Yahweh.
11 "That day, I shall give Gog a famous spot in Israel for his grave, the valley of the Obarim, east of the Sea -- the valley that halts the traveller -- and there Gog and his whole throng will be buried, and it will be called the Valley of Hamon-Gog.
12 The House of Israel will take seven months to bury them and cleanse the country.
13 All the people of the country will dig their graves, thus winning themselves renown, the day when I display my glory -- declares the Lord Yahweh.
14 And men will be detailed to the permanent duty of going through the country and burying those left above ground and cleansing it. They will begin their search once the seven months are over,
15 and as they go through the country, if one of them sees any human bones, he will set up a marker beside them until the gravediggers have buried them in the valley of Hamon-Gog
16 (and Hamonah is also the name of a town) and have cleansed the country."
17 'Son of man, the Lord Yahweh says this, "Say to the birds of every kind and to all the wild animals: Muster, come, gather from everywhere around for the sacrifice I am making for you, a great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel, so that you can eat flesh and drink blood.
18 You will eat the flesh of heroes, you will drink the blood of the princes of the world. They are all rams and lambs, goats and fat bulls of Bashan.
19 You will glut yourselves on fat and drink yourselves drunk on blood at this sacrifice I am making for you.
20 You will glut yourselves at my table on horses and chargers, on heroes and every kind of warrior -- declares the Lord Yahweh."
21 'I shall display my glory to the nations, and all nations will see my sentence when I inflict it and my hand when I strike them.
22 The House of Israel will know that I am Yahweh their God, from that day forward for ever.
23 The nations too will know that the House of Israel were exiled for their guilt; because they were unfaithful to me, I hid my face from them and put them into the clutches of their enemies, so that they all fell by the sword.
24 I treated them as their loathsome acts of infidelity deserved and hid my face from them.
25 'So, the Lord Yahweh says this, "Now I shall bring Jacob's captives back and take pity on the whole House of Israel and show myself jealous for my holy name.
26 They will forget their disgrace and all the acts of infidelity which they committed against me when they were living safely in their own country, with no one to disturb them.
27 When I bring them home from the peoples, when I gather them back from the countries of their enemies, when I display my holiness in them for many nations to see,
28 they will know that I am Yahweh their God who, having sent them into exile among the nations, have reunited them in their own country, not leaving a single one behind.
29 I shall never hide my face from them again, since I shall pour out my spirit on the House of Israel -- declares the Lord Yahweh." '
