1 He then took me out into the outer court on the north side and led me to the room facing the court, that is to say, to the front of the building on the north side.
2 Along the front, it was a hundred cubits long on the north side and fifty cubits wide.
3 Facing the gateways of the inner court and facing the paving of the outer court was a gallery in front of the triple gallery,
4 and in front of the rooms was a walk, ten cubits measured inwards and a hundred cubits long; their doors looked north.
5 The top-floor rooms were narrow because the galleries took up part of the width, being narrower than those on the ground floor or those on the middle floor of the building;
6 these were divided into three storeys and had no columns such as the court had. Hence they were narrower than the ground floor ones or the middle-floor ones (below them).
7 The outer wall parallel to the rooms, facing them and giving onto the outer court, was fifty cubits long,
8 the length of the rooms facing the outer court being fifty cubits, while for those facing the hall of the Temple it was a hundred cubits.
9 Beneath the rooms there was an entrance from the east, leading in from the outer court.
10 In the thickness of the wall of the court, on the south side fronting the court and the building, were rooms.
11 A walk ran in front of them, as with the rooms built on the north side; they were of the same length and breadth, and were of similar design with similar doors in and out.
12 Before the rooms on the south side there was an entrance at the end of each walk, opposite the corresponding wall on the east side, at their entries.
13 He said to me, 'The northern and southern rooms giving onto the court are the rooms of the sanctuary, in which the priests who approach Yahweh will eat the most holy things. In them will be placed the most holy things: the oblation, the sacrifice for sin  sin and the sacrifice of reparation, since this is a holy place.
14 Once the priests have entered, they will not go out of the holy place into the outer court without leaving their liturgical vestments there, since these vestments are holy; they will put on other clothes before going near places assigned to the people.'
15 When he had finished measuring the inside of the Temple, he took me out to the east gate and measured it right round the sides.
16 He measured the east side with his measuring rod: a total of five hundred cubits by the measuring rod.
17 He then measured the north side: a total of five hundred cubits by the measuring rod.
18 He then measured the south side: five hundred cubits by the measuring rod
19 was the total. On the west side he measured five hundred cubits by the measuring rod.
20 He measured the entire enclosing wall on all four sides: length five hundred, breadth five hundred, separating the sacred from the profane.
