1 Thessalonians ⌄

1 About times and dates, brothers, there is no need to write to you
2 for you are well aware in any case that the Day of the Lord is going to come like a thief in the night.
3 It is when people are saying, 'How quiet and peaceful it is' that sudden destruction falls on them, as suddenly as labour pains come on a pregnant woman; and there is no escape.
4 But you, brothers, do not live in the dark, that the Day should take you unawares like a thief.
5 No, you are all children of light and children of the day: we do not belong to the night or to darkness,
6 so we should not go on sleeping, as everyone else does, but stay wide awake and sober.
7 Night is the time for sleepers to sleep and night the time for drunkards to be drunk,
8 but we belong to the day and we should be sober; let us put on faith and love for a breastplate, and the hope of salvation for a helmet.
9 God destined us not for his retribution, but to win salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
10 who died for us so that, awake or asleep, we should still live united to him.
11 So give encouragement to each other, and keep strengthening one another, as you do already.
12 We appeal to you, my brothers, to be considerate to those who work so hard among you as your leaders in the Lord and those who admonish you.
13 Have the greatest respect and affection for them because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
14 We urge you, brothers, to admonish those who are undisciplined, encourage the apprehensive, support the weak and be patient with everyone.
15 Make sure that people do not try to repay evil for evil; always aim at what is best for each other and for everyone.
16 Always be joyful;
17 pray constantly;
18 and for all things give thanks; this is the will of God for you in Christ Jesus.
19 Do not stifle the Spirit
20 or despise the gift of prophecy with contempt;
21 test everything and hold on to what is good
22 and shun every form of evil.
23 May the God of peace make you perfect and holy; and may your spirit, life and body be kept blameless for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
24 He who has called you is trustworthy and will carry it out.
25 Pray for us, my brothers.
26 Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
27 My orders, in the Lord's name, are that this letter is to be read to all the brothers.
28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
